RESOURCE: Satire document classification




VERSION: 1.0




DESCRIPTION: 

The basic task is this project is document filtering over newswire 
documents, to remove "satire" documents and leave only the true
newswire documents. We define a satirical document to be one which 
deliberately makes fun of real-world individuals, organisations, and
 events. An excerpt from a satire document in the training document
 collection, e.g., is:


   Struggling Air Force One To Begin Selling Passenger Tickets

   Airforce One

   08:00AM ET | WASHINGTON

   To stay competitive, the airline will charge a fee of $25 for
 passengers bringing extra luggage on board, such as fishing gear or a
 Scottish terrier. more


 while an except from a true newswire document is:


   US, Cuba reach immigration accord to end exodus of Cubans NEW YORK,
   Sept 9 (AFP)

   The United States and Cuba announced an agreement Friday to halt the
 exodus of Cuban refugees, possibly ending a major foreign policy
 headache for President Bill Clinton.

 The accord reached after a week of negotiations calls for expanded
 legal immigration of Cubans into the United States, with Havana
 agreeing to take action to stop emigrants from leaving illegally on
 makeshift boats and rafts.




DISCLAIMER: the satire documents are exactly that - satire. They are written
to be provocative, with the intent of making light of various individuals,
 institutions, and events. The opinions expressed within the documents in no way 
express the official views of the University of Melbourne or any of its 
employees, and my using them does not constitute endorsement of the views
 expressed within.  I recognise that some people may find certain of the 
documents in bad taste and possibly insulting, but please look beyond this to 
the task at hand, i.e. document filtering, and understand that this is in no
 way deliberate on my part - I have simply collected a sample of real-world
 satire documents for the purposes of research.






LICENSE:

This dataset is made available under the terms of the Creative Commons
 Attribution 3.0 Unported licence
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), with attribution via citation 
of the following paper, which describes the dataset in full detail: 

Burfoot, Clint and Timothy Baldwin (2009) Automatic Satire Detection: Are You 
Having a Laugh?, In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short
Papers, Singapore, pp. 161¡½164.

 The paper can be found at: 

http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P09-2041



DATA SAMPLE:

All data is made available in raw text, with a single instance (= document)
per uniquely-named file. Separately, the document labels are listed in a
single file each for the training and development documents ("training-class"
and "test-class", resp.), of the form:

training-0015 true
training-0016 true
training-0017 satire
training-0018 true
training-0019 true






EVALUATION SCRIPT:

To evaluate the output of your classifier over the test data in terms of
 precision, recall and F-score (beta=1) relative to the satire class, use the
 provided "eval.prl" script:

 perl eval.prl  [-test [TEST-FILENAME]]  [-v]  -i FILENAME

 where FILENAME contains the predictions of your classifier in the same format
as described above for the data sample, namely:

test-0015 true
test-0016 true
test-0017 satire
test-0018 true
test-0019 true





CONTACT: 

Clint Burfoot (clint.burfoot@gmail.com)
Tim Baldwin (tb@ldwin.net)

