AMMAN: Jordan tightened security on its border with Iraq placing the only
crossing point on full alert amid fears Baghdad may retaliate after the
defections of two top Iraqis. "We fear the Iraqi intelligence services will
try to sneak paid men into Jordan to attack the Iraqi defectors who sought
refuge in Jordan," a senior official said. Meanwhile, Syrian President
Hafez al-Assad and his Egyptian counterpart Hosni Mubarak played down the
defections saying they would do little to improve conditions for the Iraqi
people.  (Jordan-Iraq) (Egypt-Syria) BONN: Iraq's biological weapons
programme had "the world on the verge of a massive catastrophe which no one
knew anything about," UN disarmament chief Rolf Ekeus told the German
weekly Der Spiegel. "Iraq's biological weapons ... were ready to be used at
any moment and would have killed millions of people." The information had
come from documents shown to him by General Hussein Kamel Hassan, the
architect of Iraq's armaments programmes, who defected to Jordan last
month. (Germany-Iraq-Ekeus) EILAT, Israel: Israel and the PLO were set to
resume talks on extending Palestinian self-rule despite deep divisons over
an Israeli army withdrawal from the flashpoint town of Hebron. Negotiators
are trying to nail down an elusive deal for extending autonomy on the West
Bank which is already 13 months behind schedule and is to include an
Israeli army pullback, a transfer of civilian powers and elections to a
self-rule council. (Mideast-talks) JERUSALEM: The last of three Palestinian
institutions in annexed east Jerusalem threatened with closure agreed to
stop all official activities in exchange for remaining open, Israeli police
said. All three institutions have agreed a compromise deal after being
ordered to shut by Police Minister Moshe Shahal. (Israel-Jerusalem) MUSCAT:
South Korean Energy Minister Park Jae-Yoon held talks on importing three
million tonnes of gas annually from Oman beginning in 2000. "Important
progress has been achieved towards finalising the agreement," an Omani
energy ministry advisor said. Park also discussed with his Omani
counterpart Said Ibn Ahmad al-Shanfari South Korean participation in oil
exploration and production and in a liquefied natural gas (LNG)
plant. (Oman-SKorea) CAIRO: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein spent three
years of his youth in exile in Egypt, during which he was notorious for
beating up fellow students, the weekly Rose al-Yussef said. "He had a
police record full of constant assaults and fights. He was also accused of
carrying a weapon without a license ... and of stubbing out a cigarette in
the face of an Arab girl," when he fled to Cairo after a failed attempt on
the life of former leader Abdel Karim Kassem.  (Egypt-Iraq)
