Britain said Thursday it has returned a man to the United States who
was sought in connection with the Oklahoma bombing, who had flown to
London from Chicago.
A Home Office statement called the man a possible suspect, but a
Justice Department official in Washington said the person involved was
sought as a possible witness.
The Home Office said the man was identified by immigration staff at
Heathrow Airport Thursday morning after he arrived on a Chicago flight,
and that he carried a United States passport.
CNN television news said a British government source said the man was a
Jordanian-American who had been en route to Rome.
The Home Office would give no details about the man. It said he was
interviewed, refused entry to Britain and was returned to the United
States in the afternoon.
The spokeswoman would not say where he was being flown, nor whether he
was in custody of British authorities.
In Washington, Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern said ``There are
a number of good solid leads being pursued... We may have more to say
later.''
He called the man being returned from London ``a possible witness who
was refused admittance to Britain.''
``There were discussions between the Justice Department and the Home
Office ... that led to his being returned to us,'' Stern said.
Asked if the man is a suspect, Stern replied: ``You never know what's
down the road.''
The Home Office spokeswoman said she understood that Britain's Home
Secretary, Michael Howard, spoke to Attorney General Janet Reno
Wednesday night offering any possible assistance, and that this action
was a result of that call.
The spokeswoman, who was not identified in keeping with British
practice, would give no details about how the man was identified to
British authorities or any details about him beyond his U.S. passport
status. She said any further information would have to come from U.S.
authorities.
Earlier, Prime Minister John Major hinted in the House of Commons at
the return of the man.
``I have told him (President Clinton) that we are ready help in any way
we can and, as events will show, we are assisting,'' Major told
legislators.
The car bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City on Wednesday
killed at least 36 people, including 12 children, the fire department
there said. More than 400 people were injured.
