Roundup: Africa Shows Commitment to Combatting 
Africa, where most of the world's AIDS deaths were recorded, is moving
to focus attention on the fight against the scourge.
The continent, which has only 10 percent of the world's resources,
carries 90 percent of the global disease burden and accounts for close
to 70 percent of people living with AIDS, 83 percent of AIDS deaths and
95 percent of global AIDS orphans, according to the World Health
Organization (WHO).
At least 1.83 million of the 2.5 million AIDS deaths recorded last year
occurred in Africa. The disease, which has reduced life expectancy in
Africa by up to 20 years, has overtaken armed conflicts as the number
one killer in the region.
Of the nine countries to suffer a 17-year loss in life expectancy as a
result of HIV/AIDS, seven are in southern Africa.
Life expectancy in Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa,
Zambia and Zimbabwe will be back down to that of the 1960s, said the
1999 United Nations Development Program report.
The rapid spread of AIDS has also incurred heavy economic losses to the
continent torn by conflicts and poverty.
The continent's labor force has been dramatically weakened, with the
sub- Sahara countries the hardest hit. The 14-member Southern African
Development Community (SADC) has the world's fastest-accelerating AIDS
rate and is confronting debilitating human and economic devastation
with 10 percent of its workforce infected.
South Africa is a case in point. Many of its companies are already
losing three percent of their workforce to the disease and 20 percent
of tause of apartheid, but our next lost generation will be due to
children orphaned by AIDS," said Alan Whiteside, director of health,
economics and HIV/AIDS at the University of Natal in South Africa.
Per capita income in African countries is also victimized by AIDS. The
World Bank estimated that countries haunted by the epidemic has already
seen a one-percent drop in per capita income, with Kenya showing signs
of a 15-percent reduction in 10 years.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) says if African countries want to
realize its goal of halving the number of their impoverished people by
2015, they must achieve a seven-percent economic growth each year in
the coming 15 years. The spread of AIDS, if not checked, would hinder
the continent from achieving its economic goal.
Already staggering under heavy debt, African countries are now
shouldering another heavy burden -- the medical cost for AIDS cases.
Africa as a whole currently devotes one billion U.S. dollars, an
increase of 850 million dollars from 1997, to medical treatment of AIDS
patients. By 2005, some African countries, like Kenya and Zimbabwe,
will allocate half of their health budget to cover the expenses for
AIDS patients.
Alarmed by the AIDS gravity, African countries have begun to mobilize
themselves to combat the disease. Uganda, which began an awareness
campaign 10 years ago, has become a successful model of containing the
disease, the only country in Africa that has reduced its AIDS/HIV
infection rate substantially.
The country has newly developed retro-viral drug which initial findings
show reduced transmission from mother to child during pregnancy. The
drug, which is presently being tested in clinical trials, is
considerably cheaper than its counterpart AZT, costing about six
dollars instead of 60 dollars per treatment.
Zimbabwe, one of the hardest hit countries in the world, has declared
AIDS as a national disaster. The government is working to set up a
national anti-AIDS committee to coordinate and guide anti-AIDS efforts.
South African Health Minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang recently led a
delegation to Uganda to adopt the country's successful model of
mobilizing society against the scourge.
"Social mobilization is key to prevention, and before we have a cure,
that is where we need to concentrate," she said.
Ugandans are very open about HIV and AIDS. This is what we as South
Africans really have to learn -- the openness is an essential tool
against the stigmatization of the disease, she added.
"If Uganda can do it, so can South Africa . We have fought many
battles. We can't be defeated by a virus," she said.
