USTR, Chinese discuss intellectual property rights clampdown 
A US delegation finished two days of consultations in China where
officials filled them in on intial results of efforts to close
factories violating intellectual property rights laws, the USTR's
office said Tuesday.
"A US government delegation led by assistant US Trade Representative
Lee Sands completed two days of consultations today in Guangdong
Province. The delegation met Monday with Guangdong Vice Governor Lu
Zhonghe and Tuesday with Chinese enforcement officials," the statement
said.
"The vice governor reported on the initial results of a new 'special
enforcement period,' including recent closures of certain factories and
major distribution centers for pirated software and audio-visual
products.
"We are working to verify these reports," said acting USTR Charlene
Barshefsky. "China must continue to pursue vigorously additional
enforcement actions. What is needed is clear, concrete action in
accordance with the 1995 agreement."
China announced Tuesday the closure of three more plants producing
pirated CDs, as analysts here voiced optimism that last-ditch Sino-US
talks later this week would avert a trade war over copyright abuse.
The announcement by the Press and Publication Administration (PPA) came
just ahead of a final meeting in Beijing Thursday of Chinese and US
negotiators that will seek to resolve the copyright dispute ahead of a
June 17 deadline for the imposition of tit-for-tat trade sanctions.
The closures were the latest in a series announced by the Chinese
authorities ahead of Thursday's talks -- aimed at addressing US
allegations that China has failed to fully enforce a bilateral accord
on protecting US intellectual property rights that the two sides signed
in February 1995.
Washington has threatened to impose two billion dollars in punitive
sanctions against Chinese imports on June 17 unless Beijing takes
immediate action to curb rampant piracy, especially of audio-visual
goods such as CDs and laser discs.
Beijing, which denies the US allegations, has announced
counter-measures against US imports to be imposed the same day the US
sanctions come into effect.
The standoff is virtually a blow-by-blow replay of the same piracy row
in 1995, when a trade war was finally averted with the 11th-hour
signing of the February agreement as sanctions were about to come into
effect.
