BERLIN: Roman Herzog, the candidate of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's ruling
Christian Democratic Union led the first two rounds of voting by a
special federal assembly to choose a German president. Herzog, the
conservative chairman of the country's constitutional court, won 604 of
the 1,317 votes cast by the specially-convened 1,324-member assembly of
federal members of parliament and delegates of the 16 German regional
legislatures. The Social Democrats' candidate Johannes Rau won 505
votes, the liberal Free Democrats' candidate Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher
won 132 and the independent candidate Jens Reich won 62 votes. Reich
pulled out after the first round.  MOSCOW: British Foreign
Secretary Douglas Hurd and his Russian counterpart Andrei Kozyrev
discussed the crisis in Crimea during talks at the weekend, the
ITAR-TASS news agency reported. Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Chernomyrdin prepared to meet here with his Ukrainian counterpart Efim
Zviagilsky to discuss the separatist conflict in the peninsula one day
ahead of crucial talks in Kiev between Ukrainian and secessionist
leaders. The meetings come amid reports of a military build-up in the
Russian-speaking republic following Friday's decision by the Crimean
parliament to restore a 1992 constitution, a move viewed by Kiev as
tantamount to an independence declaration.  TOKYO: North Korea
indicated it was willing to rejoin the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
(NPT) and widen access to nuclear sites, if the United States abandons
its "hostile" attitude. The official newspaper the Workers' Daily,
quoted by the official news agency KCNA received here, rounded on
Washington, accusing it of triggering the crisis on the Korean
peninsula by refusing to hold a new round of talks with the North.
MADRID: Military engineer Lieutenant Miguel Peralta Utrera, a
47-year-old father of four, was killed when a bomb destroyed his car as
he drove out of the Spanish capital, police said. Police blamed the
blast on the outlawed Basque separatist guerilla movement ETA, but no
group claimed responsibility for the attack. 
