France gives UN ultimatum over Bosnia pullout
French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur on Wednesday gave the UN
Security Council 48 hours to approve measures to strengthen security
for UN soldiers in Bosnia, warning otherwise that France may be forced
to withdraw its troops.
Stressing the seriousness of the threat to pull out its 4,500 troops,
the largest contingent in the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR), he said
the ball was in the Security Council's court after France filed a draft
resolution setting out conditions to keep its soldiers in Bosnia.
We cannot wait indefinitely" he said on French radio, adding that he
hoped the Security Council in New York would approve the French draft
"within 48 hours."
Government spokesman Philippe Douste-Blazy later quoted him as saying
in a cabinet meeting: "If satisfactory results are not obtained" for
the security of UN troops in Bosnia, "France would have to decide to
withdraw French soldiers,"
"It is all now up to the Security Council," he added.
Tuesday's draft resolution proposed in particular the strengthening of
security for UN troops, the extension of a truce due to expire at the
end of April, and the re-launching of talks between the warring Bosnian
parties.
The slaying of two French soldiers over the weekend has brought the
possibility of a withdrawal of troops closer than ever to the top of
the political agenda.
Most western leaders agree that such a pullout would lead to a vast
escalation of the Balkans conflict.
Balladur, speaking at a meeting in Brest, western France, added:
"France, which wants to be the best protector of peace, will not accept
that its soldiers are put in danger by those they are defending.
"If in all honesty nobody wants to see reason, we will have the right
after three years in Bosnia as the largest contingent there, to say:
'Go on without us.'
"If we cannot fulfil the conditions, France cannot be counted on to
maintain an untenable position for thousands of soldiers who are a long
way from home," he said.
The issue of pulling French peacekeepers out of Bosnia has suddenly
became an issue in France's presidential election campaign, in which
Balladur is struggling to revive his chances.
The prime minister, who is trailing in third place behind the
favourite, fellow Gaullist Jacques Chirac, and socialist candidate
Lionel Jospin, has benefited from the limelight as his rivals have
tried to outbid him.
Only one candidate, far rightist Jean-Marie Le Pen, has called for
outright withdrawal of the French forces, saying it was "an aberration
and criminal to throw men into such a confused scrum."
It is unclear how much the issue will sway French voters. Television
pictures shown at the weekend of one of the two French soldiers dying
have not raised noticeable outcry here.
But Balladur may be hoping to benefit from appearing tough in the
international arena. His handling of the Air France Airbus hijack drama
at Christmas was seen as giving a significant boost to his campaign.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe meanwhile issued an extraordinary
attack on the international community's lack of solidarity, accusing
both Washington and Moscow of failings over the issue.
"In reality there is not solidarity between the major powers" over
Bosnia, Juppe said, also on French radio.
"The Russians on one side are encouraging the Belgrade regime to throw
its weight around," he said, while "the United States are failing to
show the determination needed to persuade the Sarajevo government to
extend the ceasefire."
Juppe, who travelled to New York on Tuesday to present the French draft
resolution, said he hoped the Security Council would vote on it "during
the day today or by tomorrow."
