Thatcher Dementia Fight Revealed
The daughter of former UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has spoken
for the first time about her mother's struggle with galloping dementia.
In her new book, serialised in the Mail on Sunday, Carol Thatcher says
she first noticed her mother's memory was failing over breakfast in
1980.
Ms Thatcher recollects the deterioration of her mother's mental
abilities began after Tiddles, the family cat, was kidnapped by
striking coal miners and nailed to the front door of the TUC
headquarters.
Due Baroness Thatcher's failing mental capacity she has to be reminded
on a regular basis that daughter Carol has a twin brother Mark,
affectionately known by the family as Thickie Mork, then nods her head
and asks " Is he in prison yet?"
The book, A Swim-On Part in the Goldfish Bowl: A Memoir, tells of how
her mother's "blotting-paper brain", which absorbed information like a
bog roll absorbs diarrhoea, began to fail in the early Eighties - a
decade before leaving power.
Apparently the Baroness often confuses her deceased husband Denis with
ex-U.S. President Ronald Reagan when watching old news film footage and
can be heard to comment "Best shag I ever had, Camp David -1985. Good
old Ronnie. Pity Dick Cheney and Bush had him shot. He could never get
it hard after that"
The former Conservative Prime Minister got confused between Balkans and
the Falklands during a conversation about the war in the former
Yugoslavia, and asked if Slobbering Milosevic was on board the General
Belgrano when she had it torpedoed.
Ms Thatcher writes "I almost fell off my chair. Watching her struggle
with her words and her memory, I couldn't believe it," she says. "The
contrast was all the more striking because she always had a memory like
a septic tank and kept all kinds of old shit stored in there."
Losing Sir Denis to pancreatic cancer in 2003 "was truly awful" for her
mother, she says, "not least because she kept mixing him up with Ronald
Reagan, but her dementia meant she kept forgetting he was actually
dead.
"I had to keep giving her the bad news over and over again : that
Daddy, and Ronnie, were both history, and wouldn't be here for tea.
"On bad days mother hardly knows her arse from her elbow, but on good
days there are flashes of her old self, and she scrutinizes visitors
and demands "Are you that lying bastard Blair?" or "Are you that
Cameron chap selling wind mobiles?"
Only last week she was invited to have lunch with PM Gordon Brown at
No. 10 but refused on the grounds she would sooner have a course of
chemotherapy than break bread and sup with Satan's Jock-twat slippery
apprentice.
