Ratings on major Japanese banks under threat: S and 
Standard and Poor's said Monday it may review ratings on major Japanese
banks if their earnings performances worsen more than expected due to
bad loan write-offs or a slump in the value of shareholdings.
But ratings on the mega-lenders, which were lowered in February, would
not be affected for the moment despite a dismal round of financial
results for the year to March released last Friday, it said.
"The results show that the major Japanese banks are still unable to
overcome three major fundamental problems: pressured asset quality,
weak earnings, and large exposure to market risks," the global risk
evaluator said in a statement.
"Furthermore, the banks are expected to continue to incur large credit
costs for the next few years," S and P said.
Japanese banking giants Mizuho Holdings Inc, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp. Mitsubishi-Tokyo Financial Group Inc. and UFJ Holdings Inc. all
posted huge losses over the year but pledged to return to profit in the
current term.
All said they had stepped up efforts to write off bad loans by getting
tough with borrowers amid intense government pressure. Tokyo has made
bad loan reduction at banks the most important part of its reforms
aimed at lifting Japan out of a decade-long slump.
"(But) if the business environment worsens beyond current expectations,
resulting in a rapid increase in credit costs, or if further declines
in stock prices enlarge unrealised losses on securities holdings,
Standard and Poor's may review its ratings on Japanese banks," the New
York-based agency warned.
"A review could also stem from a change in our view of system support
from the government."
S and P has repeatedly urged the government to pump more tax payers'
money into the banking system to help banks to write off non-performing
loans. But Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi maintains he would only
take action in the case of a crisis, and at the moment there is no
crisis.
Total risk management loans at Japan's major lenders rose 48 percent to
27.3 trillion yen in the year to March from a year earlier, even though
bad loan disposals accelerated, said the ratings agency.
"This increase was mainly due to the application of more stringent loan
classification criteria, mostly lead by Financial Services Agency
inspections, as well as deterioration in borrowers financial profiles,"
it said.
The cost of writing off bad loans over the year exceeded operating
profits -- a trend that will likely continue, making banks' forecasts
of a return to profitability in the year to March 2003 "highly
optimistic," said S and P.
Banks' earnings would remain under pressure as long the government
maintains the urgency of cleaning up their balance sheets, said the
ratings agency.
Deflationary forces would also add to the burden of bad loans coupled
with a likely rise in sour borrowing as the economy remains weak, it
said.
"The asset quality of the major banks continues to deteriorate in the
face of increasing numbers of bankruptcies, the weakening condition of
highly indebted borrowers, and declining real estate values amid Japans
prolonged deflationary environment."
