Retirement Issue Puzzles Chinese Swimming Circle 
As the Chinese National Games is nearing to its close, the retirement
issue of "veterans" resurfaced again to puzzle the Chinese swimming
circle amid hopes and concerns.
Among those would-be retirees are world record holder He Cihong in the
women's 100-meter backstrok, and Yuan Yuan who won the national title
in the women's 200-meter breaststroke in 1996.
Chen Yunpeng, former head coach of the Chinese national team, said that
"the swimmers of other countries usually reached their peaks at the age
around 25, but our Chinese swimmers retired in an early age."
"It's a waste of manpower as a batch of swimmers retire every four
years," lamented Zhou Ming, deputy head coach of the Chinese national
squad.
Those wished to retire prior to the Games included 22-year-old Le
Jingyi, world record holder in both the women's 50m and 100m
freestyles, Jiang Chenji, 22, who made the breakthrough for the Chinese
men swimmers by finishing fourth in Atlanta, and 19-year-old Chen
Yingjuan who took the 200-meter backstroke title by clocking the
second-best time at the national games days ago.
Although many blamed the system for early retirement of the athletes,
Chen Yunpeng had a different explanation, saying that "those retirees
were weak mentally against challenges from the youngesters after their
successes."
In the Barcelona Games, the Chinese "five flowers" of Yang Wenyi,
Zhuang Yong, Lin Li, Qian Hong and Wang Xiaohong, awarded China four
gold medals with big splashes in the world.
Most of them retired later at the age of 22 or 23, and Lin Li was the
last to bid farewell to the pool as she still competed in the Atlanta
Olympic Games at the age of 26.
Lin Li failed to show up in the pool at the National Games, saying
"it's a right choice not to compete this time, because I was under too
much pressure."
Nowsdays, the Chinese swimming officials urged those "veterans" to stay
in the national squad as their experiences still play a morale-boosting
role for the young stars at least.
Both Le Jingyi and Jiang Chenji were the first to pay heed to the
calls, declaring at the National Games that they will compete in the
Olympic Games in Sydney in 2000.
