Russia, Georgia Meet to Strengthen Military Ties 
Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev arrived in Georgia on Monday for
three days of talks expected to strengthen Russia's military presence
in the Caucasus Mountain country.
``I've arrived on a working visit to discuss military and technical
cooperation between the two governments,'' Grachev told reporters on
his arrival amid heavy security at Tbilisi's airport.
He was met by Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze and other senior
officials.
Grachev said discussions would cover a security treaty regulating the
presence of Russian troops along Georgia's international borders,
establish a joint air-defense system and reach long-term agreement on
Russian military bases in Georgia, a former Soviet republic to Russia's
south.
Russia also is asking for a larger slice of Georgia's quota of tanks
inherited from the Soviet Army, Georgian officials said.
Shevardnadze said Monday in his weekly radio address that the agenda
would include ``regulation'' of conflicts in Georgia's breakaway
republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
Shevardnadze has supported Moscow's military efforts to put down its
own separatist rebellion in Chechnya, which borders Georgia.
Russia already has two battalions of peacekeepers in Abkhazia, intended
to help 250,000 Georgian refugees return. But angry refugees in western
Georgia protested over the weekend that the peacekeepers haven't done
their job.
As for the tanks, under the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty,
Georgia is allowed 220 former Soviet tanks. Revaz Adamia, secretary of
Georgia's Commission on Defense and National Security, said Russia
wants to use 115 of those, as well as some of Georgia's artillery and
other armored vehicles.
``Russia already has, indirectly, 60 tanks in Abkhazia and 40 tanks in
South Ossetia -- that would leave us with only five tanks,'' said
Adamia, adding that such a situation would be unacceptable to Georgia.
Russia also is pushing for a 25-year treaty for three military bases in
Georgia. Adamia said Tbilisi would agree to only 10 years, with
preconditions and guarantees similar to those that governed U.S.
military bases in the Philippines.
He said Georgia wanted strong assurances that Russia supports Georgia's
territorial integrity in its two ethnic disputes, will help build
Georgia's army, and can provide some financial aid to the stricken
country.
