Delegates prepare for Cairo conference amid tight security 
Delegates from 156 countries began preparatory talks here Saturday
ahead of the official opening of the UN World Population Conference
amid tight security.
Spokesman for the UN Population Fund Stirling Scruggs said up to 6,000
delegates in total were expected, most of whom had already arrived in
the Egyptian capital.
Police strictly controlled all access to the complex at Medinat Nasser,
15 kilometres (nine miles) northeast of Cairo, where the delegates were
meeting.
More than 14,000 policemen have been deployed in Cairo to protect the
15,000 delegates, journalists and representatives from non-governmental
organisations (NGOs) who are expected to attend.
Scruggs said the organisers had "full confidence in the security" which
has swung into top gear following threats by the outlawed Jamaa
Islamiyya group that those attending the "licentious" conference were
putting their lives at risk.
The conference, which opens Monday and lasts until September 13, is to
debate an 20-year action plan for slowing population growth.
But it has already come under fire from the Vatican and Islamic groups
which say it condones abortion, homosexuality and pre-marital sex.
Preparatory talks on Saturday and Sunday were due to concentrate on
adopting a conference timetable, and organising the work.
NGOs and other groups have set up a series of meetings on the sidelines
of the conference in a bid to press home their viewpoint to the
delegates. They include Arab NGOs, young people from several countries
and parliamentarians.
More than 300 parliamentarians from 107 were meeting Saturday in a
luxury Cairo hotel.
US Vice President Al Gore and Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto
are due to arrive on Sunday.
The conference will officially open on Monday with speeches from
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and UN Secretary General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali.
Parallel with the conference the NGOs have organised a forum which will
be chaired by Mubarak's wife Suzanne and attended among others by
Gore's wife, Tipper and the conference secretary general Dr. Nafis
Sadek.
