Americas seek common path to sustainable devlopment
The Americas should commit themselves to sustainable development through an
international treaty, Bolivian President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada said
Saturday at a hemispheric summit.
"This miracle will be possible if the political will ... exists to
maintain democratic and economic stability and to attain high levels of
development ... with social justice and justice for the environment,"
Sanchez de Lozada told government leaders at the two-day Americas
Summit on Sustainable Development here.
He called for a treaty to be signed by all the region's countries by
2005, the same year the hemisphere is due to reach an agreement on free
trade.
"We have seen Asia, the great example of how countries can reach
amazing growth rates with liberalization policies, but we know the
social and environmental cost in Asia has been high, which is
absolutely unacceptable," he said.
US Vice President Al Gore, for his part, opened the summit saying free
trade was compatible with sustainable development and saying that the
private sector was the key to success.
"The private sector is and will remain the main engine of sustained
development," he said.
Gore had been expected to shake up the regional meeting with a
counter-proposal to the summit declaration drafted by diplomats, but
did not do so.
Gore, a strong advocate of the environment, was one of 28 government
leaders from the Americas meeting here to debate a draft document that
states development policies should have a human face.
"The object and subject of development should be human ... The goal of
our efforts in the improvement in the quality of life and the expansion
of opportunities for our citizens," the draft document states.
Inter-American Development Bank President Enrique Iglesias pledged to
invest 10 million dollars in sustainable development projects
throughout Latin America over the next three years.
The Bolivian president was host to his counterparts from Argentina,
Brazil, Chile, El Salvador, Guayana, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru and Suriname for the two-day summit.
Notably absent were US President Bill Clinton, Mexico's Ernesto
Zedillo, Colombia's Ernesto Samper and Rafael Caldera of Venezuela, who
all sent representatives.
The meeting is a follow-up to the 1994 Summit of the Americas hosted by
Clinton in Miami, Florida, which set the stage for a free trade
agreement from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego by 2005.
The summit meeting opened two hours late because Gore's plane had to be
rerouted to the central city of Cochabamba due to torrential rains. The
US vice president was scheduled to leave Bolivia late Saturday after
signing a plan of action on sustainable development.
Also represented at the meeting was the Organization of American
States, UN Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO),
the Inter-American Development Bank and the United Nations. The
European Union, Japan, France, Spain Russia and India also sent
observers.
