American Veterans Promote Search for Both Sides' Missing 
A group of American veterans from the Vietnam War said Thursday they
are preparing to hand over battlefield souvenirs that might help locate
the remains of hundreds of missing Vietnamese soldiers.
The handover is part of an effort by the Vietnam Veterans of America to
draw on the memories and resources of war veterans on both sides to
solve the mystery of what happened to 2,211 American MIAs and more than
300,000 Vietnamese MIAs.
``We want the families on both sides to be able to rest, knowing the
fates of their loved ones,'' Thomas Corey, national secretary for the
VVA, told Vietnamese government officials at the start of the group's
10-day visit.
The VVA began what it calls the ``Veterans' Initiative'' last year when
it urged its members to turn over photos, identification cards, letters
and other items taken two decades ago from captive and dead Vietnamese.
The group brought its first batch of war artifacts to Vietnam last May,
along with maps showing where Americans buried enemy dead. One set of
maps enabled the Vietnamese to uncover a mass grave with partial
remains of 95 Vietnamese killed in a battle in southern Vietnam's Tay
Ninh province.
The veterans plan to turn over their latest batch of artifacts to
Vietnamese officials on Monday. Their hosts hinted that a two-way
exchange might take place but gave no details.
``We hope during this visit we can hand over documents which can help
you continue your activities,'' Nguyen Quang Tao, president of the
Vietnam Union of Friendship Organizations, told the Americans.
Many Vietnamese have expressed resentment at being pressured to locate
American war remains while so many of their own soldiers remain
missing. One aim of the Veterans' Initiative is to encourage
cooperation by offering something in return.
``We hope that by our example, your former soldiers will use their
recollections to find any information they can on our missing
veterans,'' said Vernon Valenzuela of the VVA.
Corey, who was shot in the neck during the war and is paralyzed from
the shoulders down, appealed: ``Over the years we've been lied to not
only by our government but by the Vietnamese government. It's very
important to us that when we go back to the States, we go back with new
information.''
In the last few years, Vietnamese authorities have joined with U.S.
teams in digging for war remains and have turned over documents on
prisoners and aircraft shoot-downs. The result has been a dramatic
warming in relations.
The two governments recently opened liaison offices in each other's
capitals, and American businessmen and tourists are flocking to
Vietnam.
However, many families of American MIAs believe the Vietnamese are
still withholding remains and information, and some accuse Hanoi of
holding live American prisoners. The U.S. government says full
diplomatic relations cannot be established until Vietnam provides more
answers, especially about Americans believed to have died in Vietnamese
prisons.
