Opposition strike halts business as international investors meet in Dhaka 
As international investors gathered here Tuesday to discuss business
opportunities in Bangladesh, the finance minister begged the opposition
to call off its general strike and spare the economy.
The half-day strike against inflation was one in a lengthy series of
strikes the opposition has called in its efforts to bring about early
elections under a caretaker government.
Thousands of police and paramilitary officers guarded the streets and
cordonned off the Sonargaon Hotel, the venue of Euromoney International
Investors' Conference.
Tension was high on the road leading to the hotel from the residence of
Prime Minister Khaleda Zia, who was to drive through the strikers to
kick off the meeting.
Police escorted ministers and guests to the site of the conference, the
first ever to focus exclusively on Bangladesh.
Schools, shops and businesses were shut, and vehicles, except for
three-wheel pedicabs, stayed off the streets.
The opposition has come under fire from the business community for the
calling strikes for Tuesday and Wednesday, and Finance Minister Saifur
Rahman urged that the strike be halted to spare the economy.
However, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, Bangladesh's main opposition leader,
defended Tuesday's strike, saying it was a protest against the unusual
increase in the price of consumer goods ahead of the Moslem holy month
of Ramadan, which starts in February.
Ramadan is a month of daytime fasts that are usually followed by
after-dark feasts, and large quantities of food are generally consumed
during this period.
The nationwide general strike planned for Wednesday was to push the
opposition's 10-month-old demand for elections under a neutral
caretaker government to ensure people's voting rights, she said.
"We are not against investment. We love this country," but development
should take place in a "sound political system," she said.
Opposition MPs from Wajed's Awami League, deposed president Hussain
Muhammad Ershad's Jatiya Party and the Moslem fundamentalist
Jamaat-e-Islami party resigned from parliament December 28 after
boycotting it since March.
President Abdur Rahman Biswas Monday did not directly appeal to the 147
opposition MPs to end their walkout, but said unity was essential for
democracy and that the parliament was the centre for discussions to
solve national problems.
