U.S., Russian Officials Agree Joint Efforts on Cleaning Radioactive 
Russia needs help if it is to prevent growing amounts of radioactive
waste from spilling into the sea, Russian and American officials said
Tuesday.
``Storage sites are catastrophically lacking, and those which do exist
don't correspond to international requirements,'' said Vladimir
Karassev, advisor to the Russian government on environmental issues,
``The work will require money which Russia doesn't have now,'' he said,
adding it would take 50 years and up to dlrs 270 billion to do the job.
Speaking to a gathering of government officials, environmentalists and
private firms from Europe, Russia and the United States, Karassev said
Moscow must dismantle 190 nuclear reactors on submarines going into
retirement, and has no way to dispose of them.
Robert Dyer of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Washington
is working with Russian and Norwegian officials on a 1-year, dlrs
2-million project to help Russians design a disposal system for liquid
radioactive waste produced by its nuclear fleet.
The fleet's nuclear waste containers are nearly full, and unless they
are emptied, will not be ready to receive waste being generated now.
Nils Bohmer of Norway's Bellona Foundation said the Kola peninsula
between Finland and Russia has the highest concentration of nuclear
reactors in the world. Some 270 reactors sit on 150 decommissioned
submarines, and another 165 reactors are in use on submarines and
battleships.
On Monday, Sergei Chetagurov, a Russian deputy minister charged with
responding to natural disasters, asked the European Union for help in
funding and figuring out how to safely dispose of nuclear weapons and
fuel on military ships.
Karassev said Russia has no legislation on nuclear waste treatment.
Dyer said the U.S. government wants Moscow to sign on to amendments
made to the 1972 London Convention, which bars waste dumping. Russia is
a signatory to the convention, but has not yet agreed to the changes in
the accord.
