De Beers to watch Russian vote with "keen interest" 
Diamond giant De Beers will keep a close eye on the Russian
presidential election, the results of which could affect crucial talks
the South African firm is holding with Moscow on the future of the
world diamond trade, a company spokesman here said Tuesday.
De Beers, which controls most of the world diamond market, hopes a new
marketing agreement being discussed with Russia can be finalised before
the country goes to the polls in June, spokesman Andrew Cummine said.
In February, De Beers and the Russian monopoly Almazy Rossii-Sakha
agreed in principle on a complex deal that would allow the Russian firm
greater access to the open market.
De Beers also offered to buy at least 1.1 billion dollars' worth of
diamonds from Russia every year.
Under a current agreement, Russia is allowed to sell only 5.0 percent
of its diamonds on the open market, but De Beers claims Moscow
regularly violated the accord by secretly selling on the black market.
Under the deal now being negotiated, Russia would be allowed to sell
about 12.5 percent of its production without going through De Beers.
"We sincerely hope that any new government ... in Russia, would find it
in their own interest to preserve existing diamond agreements," Cummine
said.
The talks and the Russian election are on the daily agenda of South
African Minister of Mineral Affairs Pik Botha, ministry spokesman
Roland Darroll said.
"We obviously believe that any event which can potentially affect our
diamond industry is of the highest importance," he said, but refused
further comment.
Johannesburg's Business Day newspaper on Tuesday quoted unnamed
analysts as saying any diamond marketing agreement involving Russia
could not be finalised until after the country's elections. The
analysts also believed that a government change in Russia would not
affect the potential agreement, as it was favourable to Moscow.
Cummine said both parties were eager to finalise a deal "as soon as
possible."
Almazy Rossii-Sakha has repeatedly told De Beers it urgently requires
the cash a new agreement would provide, Cummine said, but added: "The
political transformation in Russia has brought with it a few inevitable
delays."
