Deng Xiaoping Visits With Leaders, Sends Greetings for New Year 
Deng Xiaoping asked China's leaders to convey his greetings to the
people for Chinese New Year when they called on him for the holiday,
official reports said Saturday.
The report was the lead item on the national evening television news.
But no pictures were shown of the 90-year-old senior leader, leaving
questions about his health unanswered.
In recent weeks, there have been unofficial reports that Deng has been
critically ill. Chinese officials, however, say he is healthy for a
person his age.
A report by the Xinhua News Agency on the visit to Deng indicated he
has remained in Beijing, instead of going to Shanghai to escape the
cold northern winter as he has done in previous years.
President and Communist Party leader Jiang Zemin, Premier Li Peng and
other top leaders visited Deng and other retired leaders ``recently,''
Xinhua said.
The current leaders ``extended cordial festival greetings to Deng and
other veterans, and wished them good health and long life,'' the
state-run news agency said.
Visits to family and friends are a customary part of the lunar New
Year, or Spring Festival. The holiday is on Tuesday, when the Year of
the Pig begins.
Meanwhile, an Australian newspaper quoted Deng's daughter, Deng Rong,
as denying she had said in an interview with The New York Times that
her father could not stand or walk or that his health was declining
each day.
``He does not walk as long as he did perhaps some time ago. However,
when other people help him he continues to walk. He refuses to be put
into a wheelchair,'' she was quoted as saying by the Weekend Australian
in a report published Saturday.
``I may not have expressed myself clearly,'' she said. She said that
``except for some problems with his legs'' there were no other changes
in his condition.
The news reports Saturday did not quote Deng or give any details about
his condition. But they did underline the Communist Party's message
that it is unified behind the leadership of Jiang, who was Deng's
hand-picked successor.
``Deng and other retired leaders expressed happiness over the great
achievements made by the people of the whole country under the
leadership of Party Central Committee with Jiang Zemin at the core in
the course of reform and opening up and in the cause of building
socialism with Chinese characteristics,'' Xinhua said.
``They asked Jiang and others to convey their festival greetings to the
people and the whole nation,'' it added.
Deng is known in China as the ``great architect'' of the country's
economic reforms and opening to the outside world. The news media often
praise his accomplishments and discuss his theories, but they do not
disclose his activities or state of health.
He retired from his last official posts in 1989, but held onto power
behind the scenes.
Deng was last seen in public last February at lunar New Year
celebrations in Shanghai. A brief televised appearance showed him
looking frail.
The others who received visits were Communist Party elders Chen Yun,
Peng Zhen, Wan Li, Song Ping, Bo Yibo and Song Renqiong, Xinhua said.
It said former President Yang Shangkun received a visit in Canton.
