Rabin seeks US pledge to keep aid at three billion dollars
Prime Minister Rabin embarks Tuesday on a 10-day tour of the United
States in a bid to secure continued high levels of aid for Israel
despite fears of growing US isolationism.
Washington grants Israel 1.8 billion in military aid and 1.2 million
economic aid each year, but a Republican landslide in last week's
elections set alarm bells ringing in Jerusalem.
The United States would "become more conservative, more isolationist
and less inclined to pay out foreign aid", Rabin told the cabinet on
Sunday, according to his officials.
The prime minister wants to make sure the aid is kept at the same level
for the US budget year beginning on October 1, 1995, the officials
said.
US President Bill Clinton told the Israeli parliament on October 27
that he would work to keep the aid at current levels, but he may now
find his hands increasingly tied.
Rabin is scheduled to see Clinton at the White House next Monday along
with Secretary of State Warren Christopher. But talks are also planned
with the buoyant Republican leaders.
He announced after the US elections that Washignton's support for
Israel was bipartisan. "Republicans and Democrats strongly and equally
support Israel," said Rabin, who has in the past backed Republicans
against Democrats.
Ultra-conservative Republican senator Jesse Helms has threatened to
slash foreign aid when he takes over the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee in January.
He hit out at the aid programme of "an estimated two trillion dollars
of the American taxpayers' money, much of it going down foreign rat
holes."
Helms oppposes greater US military aid in the event of an Israeli
withdrawal from the Golan Heights as part of a peace deal with Syria.
Rabin will also ask the United States to sign a memorandum to continue
the financing of the anti-missile missle Arrow, which is being
developed by Israel Aircraft Industries with Washington picking up
three-quarters of the bill.
The missile, originally part of the US "Star Wars" programme, is about
to enter the development stage after tests.
Israeli foreign ministry officials have voiced concern the Clinton
administration will now struggle to uphold international commitments.
"Clinton has suffered a serious blow," said an internal foreign
ministry document published in the Hebrew press.
"We can no longer totally rely on his promises of maintaining aid to
Israel at current levels or of offering American guarantees for
Arab-Israeli peace."
As a goodwill gesture, Rabin has again urged his ministers to purchase
American automobiles and not European models, the officials said.
Rabin starts the trip Wednesday in Los Angeles at a showbiz gala dinner
with Barbara Streisand before flying to Denver to address Jewish
organizations.
