Pennsylvania Should Target Exports To Eastern Europe, Report Says 
The long-stagnant economies of Eastern Europe are ready to grow -- and
fast -- so Pennsylvania businesses should start selling more there,
according to a report released Thursday.
``Since the breakup of the Soviet Bloc, a huge, enormous market has
opened up for products that our country makes,'' said state Sen. Mike
Dawida. ``Pennsylvania should be grabbing this opportunity to stabilize
our economy.''
Dawida heads the Joint State Government Commission Task Force on
Eastern European Business Development, a legislative panel established
to make recommendations to Gov. Tom Ridge on increasing exports.
Pennsylvania exported dlrs 23 million worth of products to Poland in
1993, according to the report. That's less than 3 percent of the dlrs
900 million worth of goods the United States sold to Poland that year.
The task force estimates U.S. exports to Poland will total dlrs 7
billion by the year 2000. To make sure Pennsylvania gets a big share of
that, the report suggests that the state Office of International Trade
set up an office in Warsaw, Poland.
``Not only is there an opportunity, but people in Poland and the other
countries are welcoming our business,'' said Dawida, a Democrat from
Carrick. ``The Poles, the Czechs, the Hungarians, welcome American
business with open arms.''
Dawida, of Polish descent, discussed the report at the Pittsburgh hall
owned by the Polish Falcons, a social club.
The report also recommends that the state change the Capital Loan Fund
Act to make more money available to finance export businesses and make
it possible for exporters to borrow money even if they haven't signed a
sales contract yet.
It also advises the state to make service companies eligible for export
assistance loans.
The task force has already set up a nonprofit group -- Pennsylvania
International Partners for Progress -- to serve as a matchmaker between
companies in Pennsylvania and Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
