News In Brief
* Liver Flees George Jones' Body
Aug 28, 1996 | Issue 30 o 03
NASHVILLE, TN--After more than 40 years of absorbing vast
quantities of hard alcohol, George Jones' liver finally fled the
famed country singer's body Monday. "I can't take it anymore," the
liver said. "A liver can only process so many toxins before it says
to hell with it." Jones' liver absorbed its final drink early
Monday morning, a bourbon and branch water that Jones had with some
eggs for breakfast. Until it can find a place of its own, Jones'
liver plans to share an apartment with Merle Haggard's liver and
Hank Williams Jr.'s lungs.
* Year Abroad Changes Student's Worldview For One Year
Aug 28, 1996 | Issue 30 o 03
SKOKIE, IL--After a tremendously broadening year of travel through
Northern Africa, area student Naomi Pilchner returned home to the
U.S. yesterday, returning to her pre-year abroad worldview as well.
"I'll never forget the things I saw there. There were mountains and
grasslands and the most exotic animals imaginable. But there was
also terrible drought and starvation--people were literally dying
in the streets," Pilchner told friend Jennifer Baskin upon arriving
home. "Do you want to go look for shoes at Woodfield, Jen? I saw
this awesome pair of green sandals on sale."
* Clinton Gets Box To Put Government's Stuff In
Aug 28, 1996 | Issue 30 o 03
WASHINGTON, DC--Unable to keep track of an ever-mounting pile of
federal items, President Clinton got a big box to put all the
government's stuff in yesterday. "It was getting really messy,"
Clinton said. "So I decided it was time to get it all off the
floor." According to Clinton, the box, made of sturdy, high-quality
corrugated cardboard, will be used to hold many of the government's
estimated 5.1 trillion belongings, which include 51 aircraft
carriers, 296,000 staple removers and the tax records of every
American citizen. "That's a lot of stuff," Clinton said. "I just
hope it all fits."
* Cry Of More, More, More Heard In Midnight Hour
Aug 28, 1996 | Issue 30 o 03
LONDON--A cry of more, more, more was heard in the midnight hour
Sunday, prompting police to launch a full-scale investigation.
"While we don't have any leads yet, the yell clearly sounded like
it came from an outsider, possibly even a rebel," said London
police commissioner James Blaney. "Before I investigate further,
though, I urge you to let me sink another drink, as it will give me
time to think." Blaney added that if the current
investigation--during which police have looked all over the
world--fails to yield any real clues soon, tomorrow might be a nice
day to start again. "Whoever this rebel is," Blaney said, "he
clearly has got no human grace."
* Stupid Magazine Ranks Some Stupid Crap
Aug 28, 1996 | Issue 30 o 03
NEW YORK, NY--Fling magazine, the "magazine for on-the-go
twentysomethings," arbitrarily ranked a bunch of stupid crap from 1
to 10 in its new September issue, providing those included in the
list with a false sense of validation and Fling with something to
put on its cover. "We are number one," said a member of the group
ranked first. "This magazine ranking proves it!" In addition to
exciting those included near the top of the list, the survey
excited editors of other stupid publications, who found the stupid
rankings to be a perfect editorial space-filler. According to Fling
editor Michael Klein, the magazine plans to rank as much other crap
as possible in the future, as making up lists lends a publication
importance and credibility.
* Christ's Face Seen On Miracle Canvas
Aug 21, 1996 | Issue 30 o 02
FLORENCE, ITALY--Millions flocked to a museum in Florence this week
to witness an image of Christ's face suspended on an ordinary piece
of canvas. "It is Him!" said Paolo Bruni, 63, a merchant from
Sorrento who traveled 200 miles to the diSforzi Museum to see the
vision of Christ floating in the middle of a "golden rectangle."
"It is truly a miracle," he said. Despite the clear depiction of
Christ, many remain unconvinced. "It is a trick of the light," said
German tourist Dieter Ühler, 34. "This is, ah, how do you say, an
impossibility." The discovery of the miracle canvas comes just
weeks after the supposed discovery of a 9x12-inch piece of paper
with some fruit on it in a French museum.
* Sports De-Emphasized
Aug 21, 1996 | Issue 30 o 02
WASHINGTON, DC--After occupying a pre-eminent position in American
culture for more than half a century, sports was de-emphasized
Sunday, returning to what one U.S. spokesperson called "a more
proper perspective." Phase one of the de-emphasis begins next week,
when U.S. citizens will be stripped of all pro team merchandise,
including Starter-brand NFL team jackets, officially licensed
replica NBA jerseys and any remaining wacky fan novelty items. "I
am going to fight this, as it is my strong conviction that sports
is life, and the rest is just details," said Chicago resident Brian
Fordson, clutching his Tazmanian Devil-Chicago Bears
beer-dispenser/ helmet. According to reports, replacing sports in
national importance will be either folk dancing or the study of the
pre-WWI immigrant labor movement.
* Man With Big Stick To Lead Russia
Aug 21, 1996 | Issue 30 o 02
MOSCOW--With severe political instability, economic woes and a war
in Chechnya threatening to tear Russia apart, Kremlin officials
announced today that a man with a big stick will step forward to
lead the troubled nation. Ailing prime minister Boris Yeltsin
declared that he will step aside willingly, provided the unnamed
stick-wielder was an imposing, burly man equipped with a stick of
sufficient size to command total obedience and control. Russian
officials have not ruled out the possibility of also equipping the
man with large, hob-nailed boots.
* Adorable Puppy Nets Owner Handjob
Aug 21, 1996 | Issue 30 o 02
AUSTIN, TX--Area puppy Patches netted owner James Kearney a handjob
yesterday, using his undeniable puppy adorability to attract an
attractive human female on behalf of his owner. According to
reports, during a routine afternoon walk, Patches, a
three-month-old yellow lab, stopped and playfully lapped the heels
of area resident Rachel West, 20, who within minutes converted her
strong feelings of affection toward Patches into sexual attraction
for his owner. Kearney strongly denied allegations that he
intentionally used the dog to win sexual favors.
* Governor Lashes Out Against Cheap Scotch, Poorly Rolled Cigars
Aug 21, 1996 | Issue 30 o 02
MONTPELIER, VT--In an angry address before supporters, Gov. James
Kingery Monday railed against what he called "cheap-ass,
watered-down scotch" and "cigars so poorly rolled they fall apart
when you smoke them." He also lambasted magazines with pages so
glossy that they're unreadable, and his wife's inability to gyrate
and speak in a sexy manner during intercourse. "I've had it,"
Kingery told an assembled crowd of 2,000 at the State Capitol. "And
I plan to drive legislation through the State Assembly to take
action on these injustices." Gov. Kingery later recanted the
statements, admitting he was "coked to the gills" at the time.
