Leading German Conservatives Defect from May 8 Celebration 
Leading German conservatives -- including a Cabinet member and senior
police officials -- have opted out of a celebration of the 50th
anniversary of V-E Day and instead will hold a day of mourning in
Munich.
Underlying the alternative ceremony is an attempt to get Germans to
stop seeing themselves as the unique evil-doers of the century, Heimo
Schwilk, the Berlin intellectual who organized the event, said in an
interview Monday.
Schwilk said Nazi crimes under Hitler, however horrible, were
comparable to other mass murders of the century -- by Stalin, the
Cambodian Khmer Rouge -- and the Americans with the atomic bomb.
While May 8, 1945 symbolizes the liberation of the concentration camps,
it also marked the start of communist enslavement of eastern Europe and
forced exile of 12 million Germans from former German territory that
was incorporated into Poland, Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union after
the war.
A statement published Friday by Schwilk and 300 others, including
Carl-Dieter Spranger, the overseas development minister, set off an
outcry. There were demands that Chancellor Helmut Kohl step in to
clarify that Germany is grateful for having been liberated by the
Allies.
Kohl, who has invited American, British, French and Russian leaders to
the official May 8 ceremony in Berlin, was off on a three-week fast in
the Austrian Alps when the conservative statement was published.
His spokesman, Peter Hausmann, said the statement represented ``part of
the political spectrum that has every right to express its opinion
about May 8, a day that evokes many mixed feelings.''
The statement, published in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, called
May 8 a day of mourning. Thousands of German soldiers perished in
Soviet camps after May 8. Eastern Europe was occupied by tyranny.
Germans east of the Oder River were driven from their homes, the
statement said.
Ignatz Bubis, leader of Germany's Jewish community, said the
signatories were ``lovers of the bad old days who would just as soon
continue everything that happened between 1933 and 1945, maybe with the
exception of genocide.''
A curious informal coalition stands behind the May 7 celebration.
It includes police commissioner Manfred Kittlaus, in charge of
investigating communist crimes in East Germany, and Dieter Stein, an
editor put under federal police watch this year because his ``Juenge
Freiheit'' newspaper is a rallying point for rightist radicals.
The scheduled May 7 speakers include far leftist apostate Klaus Rainer
Roehl, widower of Red Army Faction leader Ulrike Meinhof; and Ernst
Nolte, who argues that Stalin was as responsible as Hitler for the
outbreak of World War II.
Rita Suessmuth, the president of the German parliament, said the
group's statement had confused cause and effect.
``The suffering and injustice of the deportations (of Germans after
World War II) was all a result of the murderous suffering that Hitler
and his leadership from Germany imposed on the world,'' she said.
Schwilk admitted that his agenda went beyond May 8. He argued that
Germans wouldn't become a self-confident people until they stopped
seeing the Holocaust as a unique crime of humanity.
The alternative ceremony will be held at a Munich theater May 7.
Commenting on the provocative choice of Munich, hometown of Hitler's
movement, Schwilk said it was the only city where police could
guarantee the meeting wouldn't be disrupted by left-wing radicals.
Ten years ago, in a speech for the 40th anniversary of V-E Day,
President Richard von Weizsaecker declared May 8 ``the day of
liberation, the day that freed us all from the inhuman system of Nazi
dictatorship.''
Alfred Dregger, a leading Christian Democrat and organizer of the May 7
ceremony, said the call to mourn the day was an ``addenda, and not a
negation'' of Weizsaecker's speech.
``We were freed from Nazism on May 8, 1945,'' Dregger said. ``But
unfortunately peace and human rights were not established across
Europe, and the politicians of the past 50 years were partly
responsible. And I see no reason why we should just accept that.''
