Argentina are under new management in the shape of former World Cup
winning captain Daniel Passarella and the liberal tactics espoused in
World Cup 94, lots of attacking but no defence, of former boss Adolfo
Basile, have been dispensed with.
Passarella has introduced discipline on and off the pitch, including
the bizarre one of keeping one's hair short, strange because
Argentina's 1978 World Cup winner and former team mate Mario Kempes had
flowing locks which never did him any harm.
Arguing with Passarella cuts no ice as Gabriel Batistuta, leading
scorer with 26 goals for Fiorentina in the Italian First Division,
discovered when he challenged the edict.
Batistuta discovered that not everyone became a softie like Samson
after losing one's hair and has regained his place in the team. Other
survivors from '94 include Lazio's defender Jose Chamot and Roma
forward Abel Balbo.
Passarella, though, has introduced young talent particularly
18-year-old Marcelo Gallardo, a gifted playmaker.
Though the results so far have been encouraging this is the first major
test for Passarella's regime and a disappointing competition may well
fuel players' discontent.
The remainder of group C should not pose too many problems. Chile are
without their leading scorer from Spain, Real Madrid's 28-goal Ivan
Zamorano, and added to the humiliating 0-6 hammering they took from the
usually goal-shy Peruvians, former Bolivian boss Xavier Azkagorta has
some deep problems to sort out.
Azkagorta faces his former team in the group and it will present their
Colombian-based forward Marco Etcheverry with an opportunity to erase
the memory of the shortest stay in the '94 World Cup. He came on as a
78th minute substitute and was sent off four minutes later.
He was badly missed by the Bolivians but with Etcheverry renewing links
with Erwin Sanchez Bolivia look set for the quarter-finals at least.
The United States have just finished top of the latest edition of the
US Cup but their easy victory over Mexico was flattering and the
Mexicans will have had their eyes on this more prestigious and sterner
challenge.
The States, though, should not be dismissed out of hand as Padova's
Alexi Lalas and Mexican-based Marcelo Balboa provide a formidable
defensive core.
