Palestinian militant leader freed in US-HAMAS deal: report 
The United States released HAMAS leader Mussa Abu Marzuk in exchange
for commitments from the Palestinian militant group not to attack US or
Israeli civilian interests, an official Egyptian newspaper said Friday.
Citing "senior Palestinian sources," Al-Ahram said the US decision to
free Abu Marzuk and let him leave for Jordan came about "by virtue of a
deal concluded in the last two months by Washington and HAMAS."
The Islamic Resistance Movement (HAMAS) is fiercely opposed to peace
between Israel and the Palestinians.
The sources said the deal "contains four clauses," which includes
"HAMAS's commitments not to attack Americans or US interests in the
region or the world and not to attack Israeli civilians."
HAMAS also committed itself to informing Washington "of every contact
by Israel" with the group and agreed that Jordan would be where HAMAS
and the US administration maintained bilateral contacts, they said.
Washington was "surprised" that HAMAS had informed Palestinian
President Yasser Arafat of the agreement, Al-Ahram said.
"When US envoys recently asked (the Palestinian leader) to suspend
contacts with HAMAS, Arafat said: 'Why ask me not to talk to HAMAS when
you are entering into contacts with it?'"
In Gaza City, HAMAS official Sayed Abu Musameh told AFP he was "not
aware of such an agreement."
"HAMAS is an Islamic movement (which fights) the Israeli occupation of
Palestinian territory and we don't have any connection with any
(possible) attack against the United States abroad," he said.
Abu Marzuk, a HAMAS politburo official, was arrested by US immigration
officers in July 1995 when the plane he was on landed in New York. His
name had been placed on a list of terrorism suspects.
Israel, which accuses him of getting financing for anti-Israeli
attacks, gave up its extradition request for him for "reasons linked to
security and the prevention of terrorism."
HAMAS welcomed the decision by Jordan's King Hussein Wednesday to let
Abu Marzuk stay in his country.
