BERLIN: German first division club Hertha Berlin have confirmed they
are in talks with the current coach of their rivals Schalke 04, Huub
Stevens, with a view to him replacing current boss Jurgen Rober next
season. Hertha announced last month they would part company with Rober
at the end of the season.  Bayern in talks for stadium Allianz
MUNICH: Reigning European champions Bayern Munich are in discussions
about possibly naming their new stadium, due to be completed in 2005,
after the insurance company Allianz. "I think it would be terrific if
it works out," said Bayern general manager Uli Hoeness.  Peterson
on sidelines TORONTO: Toronto Raptors forward Morris Peterson will miss
six to eight weeks with a broken right index finger, the National
Basketball Association team announced, and his roster spot will be
taken by Senagal-born Mamadou N'Diaye. Peterson suffered the injury
late in the third quarter of Wednesday's 95-84 victory at Portland.
N'Diaye has been on the injured list all season with a bad back. 
Spurrier resigns GAINESVILLE, Florida: Steve Spurrier, who turned the
University of Florida into a college gridiron power, has resigned as
coach of his alma mater just as the National Football League's
end-of-season coaching shuffle gets underway. Spurrier announced that
he wasn't "burned out, stressed out or mentally fatigued," and "if the
opportunity and challenge of coaching an NFL team happens it is
something I would like to pursue." His resignation came the same day
that the Minnesota Vikings and coach Dennis Green parted ways, shortly
after the San Diego Chargers sacked their coachthn NFL job, and amid
speculation that Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach Tony Dungy's job is in
jeopardy.  Mexican refs not keen on the draw MEXICO: Mexican
referees are prepared to down tools after saying they will not accept
being chosen for matches by lot, meaning the Start of the season, due
for Saturday, could be delayed. The referees say FIFA rules ban the
practice of randomly choosing which matches referees should officiate
at but the Mexican football federation wants precisely that. 
afp02
