Britain Faces Bankruptcy as Olympic Games Costs Spiral out of Control
A sobering report from The 'Olympic Delivery Authority' (ODA) published
today claims that spiralling costs will soar from £9bn to £400bn during
the next four years causing Britain to go into bankruptcy.
Spokesman Johnny West said, "The credit crunch, a falling property
market, an increasing oil price, high inflation, soaring material costs
and growing security measures for terrorism will all contribute to
Britain going over the edge. We are looking at a financial meltdown."
Lord Coe, the hero and instigator of bringing the Games to Britain
commented, "I wish I hadn't bothered. The World is going into a lengthy
recession and we're stuck with the Games. Talk about bad timing."
Rumour has it that Coe is attempting to find another country to host
the Olympics but as one insider said, "No-one's interested. They're
just relieved Britain won it. France can't believe their luck."
London Mayor Boris Johnson has come up with some novel ways of cutting
down on expenditure. "We're asking local inhabitants to chip in. For
example, Mr and Mrs Barron at 25, Leaf Way, in Stratford, have said
they will offer bed and breakfast to 5 overseas athletes. The Smith
family in Manor Road have bequeathed the use of their swimming pool.
The Lightly family next door have said we can have their extensive gym
facilities. What we need is to regain that East End Blitz mentality,
where everyone mucks in."
West explained, "We are in a pickle. Britain can't afford to hold the
Games anymore. It simply isn't feasible. So, we either cancel them or
somehow muddle through."
Prime Minister Gordon Brown stated last week that there wasn't anymore
money left in the British coffers for the Olympics and that other ways
of raising money would need to be found.
West continued, "Schemes include a chain of casinos; lap dancing and
strip clubs; poker halls and the selling of drugs like heroin and
cocaine. These different businesses could all be run by the British
Government and should rake in millions."
Lord Coe added, "It's a bloody cock-up. If I had my way, the Games
would be cancelled today. Britain is staring into a financial abyss.
The 2012 Olympics will destroy this country and all those living in
it."
