Bangladesh Likely to Graduate From LDC Status 
Bangladesh is likely to graduate into a "developing country" from its
current status of a "least developed country (LDC)" as its gross
domestic product (GDP) and per capita income have registered
significant growth, according to a bulletin released here Saturday.
The LDC status is determined by three criteria laid down by the United
Nations General Assembly in 1971, including per capita income, a
manufacturing share of 10 percent or less in GDP and a literacy rate of
20 percent or less.
With Bangladesh's GDP and per capita income registering a remarkable
increase, the international community might seek the country's
exclusion from the LDC list, the Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and
Industry (MCCI) said in its monthly bulletin, Chamber News.
"With the current 16 percent share of the manufacturing sector in GDP
and over 40 percent literacy rate, Bangladesh does not qualify for the
LDC status under these two criteria," the MCCI said.
The national accounting system in Bangladesh has been revised in
accordance with the revised guidelines of the U.N. system of national
accounts issued in 1993.
"There has also been a change in the GDP sectoral shares. The sectoral
share of the industrial sector in GDP in financial year 2000 is
projected to increase from 19.2 percent under the old system to 25.7
percent under the revised one. Correspondingly, the manufacturing share
in GDP will surge to 15.4 percent from the current 11.3 percent," the
bulletin said.
The new estimates give the impression that the country has now reached
the same stage of industrial development as Pakistan and India. The new
system of national income compilation shows that Bangladesh is not
actually as poor as it had been depicted earlier.
By being placed on the LDC list, Bangladesh is entitled to preferential
treatment in trade development aid. With the increase in GDP and the
diversified state of the country's economy, it is conceivable that
international pressure will mount to push Bangladesh out of its LDC
status, experts predicted.
