Funeral of IRA bomber attended by IRA members, marked by tight security 
IRA members, including convicted terrorists, on Wednesday ignored pleas
from the family of IRA bomber Edward O'Brien and attended his funeral
10 days after he blew himself up on a central London bus.
The brother of Martin McGuinness, the deputy leader of the Irish
Republican Army's political wing, Sinn Fein, was in the aisles of Gorey
parish church along with convicted IRA terrorist Raymond McCartney, to
hear priest Father Walter Forde say that O'Brien had been "hijacked by
the Godfathers of the IRA".
Outside the church, two IRA members who had escaped from prison in
England, Nessan Quinlivan and Pierce McCauley, were watched by scores
of policemen who have staked out the 4,000-strong village over the past
three days.
There was none of the display of arms during the ceremony that has
characterised funerals of other IRA members who have died in "active
service" and been buried with "military honours" from the armed
paramilitary fighters.
O'Brien's family condemned the bombing, which injured nine other
innocent victims, as well as the Sinn Fein movement.
Armed police stopped and controlled any vehicle trying to enter the
village, where the church has been under guard since Monday to ensure
that no IRA graffiti or insignia would be posted ahead of the ceremony.
The vast majority of mourners gathered under the spring sun wore white
ribbons on their lapels, that the priest had supplied as symbols of
peace to demonstrate their horror and rejection of IRA violence.
Father Forde commiserated with the bomber's family, who must "try to
make sense of how a young man, barely out of his teens, was drawn into
the sordid and terrible world of terrorism".
He added that the entire community must try to understand how 0'Brien's
"misguided idealism was hijacked, reshaped and distorted by the
godfathers of the IRA".
The "overwhelming majority" were consumed by a "humbling sense of
sympathy, understanding and a sense of solidarity" with the O'Brien
family, according to the priest.
