Night Lead Budget SEE CP PHOTOS G-7 leaders move ahead with financial
reform By Clyde Graham HALIFAX (CP) _ Leaders of the seven top industrial
countries set aside fresh concerns about Bosnia to reform the world
financial sys?V? 9?prevent another Mexico-type currency crisis that boosted
interest rates. ``We got a lot of business done,'' Prime Minister Jean
Chretien said Friday as he summarized progress at the annual G-7 summit,
dominated so far by rising conflicts in the former Yugoslavia. An expected
deal emerged to keep a closer watch on potential deadbeat countries and
bail them out if necessary. Chretien linked it all to the global concern
about unemployment _ little more than a side dish at this summit. ``The
concrete result of this meeting will help the world to feel that the world
is still growing and that growth will necessarily create jobs,'' said
Chretien. The leaders agreed on reform of the International Monetary Fund _
the world's central bank _ in the hope of heading off another
Mexican-peso-type crisis that jacked up interest rates across North America
this winter.  ``You know we have been concerned with the instability that
can be caused by volatile currency markets and large flows of capital,'' he
said after meetings in a downtown office building. ``That is why we have
agreed to strengthen the International Monetary Fund.'' With conflict
rising in Bosnia, the United States, Britain and France also launched an
urgent, worldwide search for contributions to finance an expanded UN
peacekeeping force. The call for peacekeeping funds, prompted by Congress's
reluctance to pay, is expected to concentrate on wealthy Persian Gulf oil
states and prosperous nations in Asia. Russian President Boris Yeltsin
arrived Friday to meet with his counterparts over dinner. The G-7 leaders _
from Canada, the United States, France, Britain, Italy, Germany and Japan _
are ready to chide Yeltsin for Moscow's crackdown in the breakaway republic
of Chechnya. But they'll also be asking for help in defusing the crisis in
Bosnia, where 11 of about 2,000 Canadian peacekeepers in the region are
being held hostage.  The leaders have also agreed on the need for better
and more open economic statistics as a kind of early-warning system for
troubled countries. ``The IMF must also be able to move faster when a
crisis does develop and it must have the necessary financial resources,''
Chretien said. He confirmed that will mean a doubling of money available to
the IMF. Some U.S. estimates have put the new total at $58 billion US,
while Canadians say the new figure will be closer to $43 billion US,
depending on how the value of various currencies is calculated. More
countries would kick into the fund to increase the total, while Canada's
share would not rise. That ``emergency financing mechanism'' could bail out
countries when the alarm bells fail to ring.  Chretien also said the G-7
leaders have agreed to reform the World Bank _ the sister institution of
the IMF _ and United Nations development agencies that aid poorer
countries. He also said French President Jacques Chirac has agreed to hold
an additional jobs summit next year.  France will follow Canada as host of
the annual G-7 economic meeting in 1996 at Lyon. Chretien said jobs and
growth will come from more open trade and that means a fully functioning
World Trade Organization, or WTO, launched this year. ``We want the WTO to
succeed.'' Chretien said the leaders have promised to establish an
effective way to settle trade disputes under the WTO. A bitter U.S.-Japan
fight over auto trade has been looming over the summit. Canada has been
pushing to make sure that dispute is handled by the new WTO.
