Southern Co. Makes Hostile Bid For U.K. Utility
Southern Co., a U.S. utility holding company, launched a hostile bid
Thursday that values a regional British electricity supplier at around
1 billion pounds (dlrs 1.6 billion).
South Western Electricity PLC, known as SWEB, rejected the offer as too
low _ it was 3.5 percent cheaper than SWEB's price early Thursday on
the London Stock Exchange.
``To bid now at this level is naive,'' said SWEB chairman Maurice
Warren. ``It wastes management time and shareholders' money in
rejecting a bid the market has made clear is patently inadequate.''
Southern Co., through its subsidiary Southern Electric International
Inc., offered to pay 38 pounds (dlrs 60.80) in cash and 52 pounds (dlrs
83.20) in bonds for each 10 shares of SWEB.
This values SWEB's shares at about 9 pounds (dlrs 14.40) each. The
shares closed Wednesday at 9.27 pounds (dlrs 14.83) and rose Thursday
morning to 9.33 pounds (dlrs 14.93).
The chief executive of Southern Electric International, Thomas Boren,
told a midday news conference that his company would not be willing to
revise its bid before obtaining more information about SWEB. The
current offer is not ``miserly,'' Boren insisted.
``The market's initial reaction indicates that we got it about right,''
Boren said. ``Until we see a defense document, the debate about price
is not going to be meaningful.''
Securities analysts in London suggested Southern Co. will have to up
the ante at least a bit, perhaps to the range of 9.50 pounds (dlrs
15.20) per share, if it is to succeed in its goal of entering the
British market.
SWEB, one of 12 regional electric companies in England and Wales,
supplies power mostly in the southwestern areas of Devon and Cornwall.
The company reported pre-tax profits of 111.5 million pounds (dlrs
181.4 million) on revenues of 874.9 million pounds (dlrs 1.42 billion)
for the year ending March 31.
Southern Co. had begun its play for SWEB with a ``dawn raid'' on
Monday, moving into the market and snapping up 11.2 percent of the
unwilling target. SWEB met briefly with its suitor and after learning
that Southern Co. wanted to pay no more than 9 pounds (dlrs 14.40) per
share, SWEB broke off the talks.
Warren said Thursday had had already told Atlanta-based Southern Co.
that the bid was ``not a price we could recommend to our
shareholders.''
Southern Co., which owns utilities in the southern American states of
Alabama, Georgia, Florida and Mississippi, earned dlrs 989 million last
year on revenues of dlrs 8.3 billion.
Southern Co., through its international subsidiary, also supplies
electricity to customers in Argentina, Chile, the Bahamas and Trinidad
and Tobago. It has opened an office in Hong Kong to pursue
opportunities in China and also is considering projects in southern
Africa.
