Glenn Burke, Gay Baseball Player Who Says He Was Shunned, Dies
Glenn Burke, a Los Angeles Dodgers and Oakland Athletics outfielder who
says he was blackballed from baseball for being gay, has died of
AIDS-related complications. He was 42.
Burke died Tuesday night at a San Leandro hospital after being admitted
Friday, said Pam Pitts, director of administration for the Athletics.
Although Burke had spent time in San Quentin prison and on San
Francisco's streets in recent years, he was cared for in his last
months at his sister's home and surrounded by family, Pitts said.
Burke, who played at 215 pounds from 1976-79, was down to 135 pounds by
last fall, said Eric Sherman, who worked with Burke on an upcoming book
about the player's career.
``The doctors didn't give him past Christmas,'' Sherman said Wednesday.
``He could've passed away in November. He's been hanging on for months.
It's a somber day, but also a day of relief because his family and
friends know he's at peace with himself.''
Burke made his mark in baseball when he delivered what is believed to
be the first high-five in sports during the Dodgers' 1977 World Series
season.
But his promise in baseball was never fully realized given what Burke
said were ``prejudiced and homophobic'' managers and bias in front
offices around the league.
``Being black and gay made me tougher,'' Burke told The Associated
Press in October. ``I had to be tough to make it'' in baseball.
Burke's homosexuality was known within baseball although he did not
come out publicly until 1982, two years after he left the game.
Billy Martin, then manager of the Athletics, told him, ``I don't want
no faggot on my team,'' Burke said, and the A's refused to sign him
again.
The Dodgers had traded Burke to Oakland in 1978, after Burke turned
down the Dodgers' offer of a free honeymoon if he would just get
married.
``It got to the point where prejudice just won out,'' Burke said. ``The
Dodgers got rid of me, and everybody on the team knew why. Billy Martin
didn't want no part of me, and no one else would sign me. I just got
blackballed. A gay man in baseball? Uh, uh. No way.''
Burke's major league stats were modest _ a .237 batting average and 35
stolen bases over four years.
``He had a lot of inner turmoil that he was going through,'' said
former outfielder Dusty Baker, now the San Francisco Giants manager.
``We'll never know how good he could have been,'' Baker said.
Out of baseball, Burke used cocaine heavily. He spent 17 months in San
Quentin earlier in the 1990s on counts of false imprisonment, grand
theft, possession of a controlled substance and subsequent parole
violations.
Sherman, whose book is due this summer, said Burke was not angered over
his treatment by the baseball establishment.
``He really wasn't bitter about it when he died,'' Sherman said. ``He
didn't write the book to get back at anybody. He just wanted his story
told.''
The Athletics said Burke's family has not yet made funeral
arrangements.
