American Prisoners Get One Month To Appeal Convictions 
Two Americans jailed for illegally entering Iraq have been given up to
one month to appeal their eight-year prison sentences, instead of the
usual two weeks, sources reported Sunday.
But there was no indication of an early release. The legal procedures
for that could take up to three months, Iraqi law experts and officials
close to the case said. They spoke on condition of anonymity.
The United States has appealed for the release of David Daliberti, 41,
of Jacksonville, Florida, and William Barloon, 39, of New Hampton,
Iowa, since their arrest March 13.
The men were convicted by a Baghdad court on March 25.
U.S. officials say the pair crossed the southern border with Kuwait by
accident on their way to visit friends at a U.N. border post.
A senior Iraqi official, Hassab al-Oubaidi of the foreign relations
department of the Baghdad parliament, suggested Saturday that the issue
of the Americans could be settled ``in the coming few days.'' But he
did not elaborate.
The legal experts said Daliberti and Barloon must present all relevant
papers and documents to the Appeals Court when they ask for a review of
their sentences.
U.S. officials have been working to secure the men's release through
the Polish Embassy, which handles American interests in Baghdad in the
absence of direct U.S.-Iraqi diplomatic relations.
Iraqi officials, like al-Oubaidi, have made vaguely hopeful remarks,
while others and government-run newspapers have taken tougher lines
that have made it difficult to discern what the official line is on the
jailed Americans.
For instance, al-Qadissiyah, the Defense Ministry's daily, said Sunday
that they are no different from Mexicans trying to immigrate illegally
to the United States.
It criticized what it called ``the spasms of American officials toward
Iraq's legal stance in punishing the Americans who sneaked into its
national territory.
Iraq's foreign minister, Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf, noted Thursday that
he did not believe that two Americans entered Iraq accidentally, but
must have had a darker motive.
He and other senior officials have repeatedly said they suspect the
Americans' entry into Iraq was linked to U.S. efforts to blunt
Baghdad's drive to have U.N. trade sanctions lifted.
The embargo, imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, has
devastated Iraq's economy and caused worsening hardship for most of the
country's 18 million people.
The chief of the U.N. Special Commission charged with dismantling
Iraq's weapons programs, Swedish diplomat Rolf Ekeus, is scheduled to
report to the Security Council this month on his mission and the
effectiveness of the elaborate surveillance system his inspectors have
installed across Iraq.
That report, if favorable to Baghdad, could intensify pressure by some
Security Council members, led by Russia, France and China, to ease the
sanctions.
The United States and Britain have blocked all efforts to soften or
lift the embargo, claiming Iraq is hiding biological weapons.
They also want Baghdad to free some 600 Kuwaiti prisoners and stop
suppressing the Iraqi people, especially rebellious Kurds and Shiite
Muslims.
U.S. diplomacy in recent days has concentrated on convincing Iraq that
it has nothing to gain by holding onto the two Americans.
