Premier's Report on Outline of New 5-Year Plan
During the Ninth Five-Year Plan period, the Chinese government resumed
its exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong and Macao, and historic
progress was made in the great cause of peaceful reunification of the
motherland. Since the return of Hong Kong and Macao to the embrace of
the motherland, the principle of "one country, two systems" and the
basic laws of the two regions have been implemented in a comprehensive
way. Outstanding achievements were made in the work of the governments
of the special administrative regions. Social stability and economic
development were secured in Hong Kong and Macao.
With the fulfillment of the Ninth Five-Year Plan, we attained the
strategic objectives for the second stage of China's modernization
drive, which laid a solid foundation for undertaking the Tenth
Five-Year Plan and moving on to the third stage. This constituted a
great achievement in China's socialist modernization drive and a new
milestone in the progress of the Chinese nation.
These tremendous achievements in economic and social development during
the Ninth Five-Year Plan period were hard-won victories over numerous
difficulties. We successfully coped with the challenges posed by
unexpected international events. We protected ourselves from the impact
of the Asian financial crisis. We controlled inflation during the
initial stage of the Ninth Five- Year Plan and curbed deflation in the
middle and late stages. We also conquered severe floods and droughts.
We attained these achievements thanks to the timely and correct policy
decisions made by the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Jiang Zemin at
its core in the face of numerous problems and difficulties and to the
concerted efforts of the people throughout the country. On behalf of
the State Council, I would now like to pay my highest respects to the
people of all ethnic groups. You have all been working hard and making
contributions in your own fields of endeavor. I also wish to express
our sincere thanks to our compatriots in Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, Macao Special Administrative Region, Taiwan, as
well as to overseas Chinese who have shown their concern and support
for the development and reunification of the country.
