Hussein and Rabin emerge from nine secret meetings for an open summit
When King Hussein of Jordan and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin
shake hands in Washington on Monday it will be their 10th meeting but
the first public summit in the full glare of the cameras.
No other Arab head of state has had as many contacts with Israel as
Hussein -- in Europe, in Jordan, in Israel, even aboard a ship, despite
the continued state of war between the two neighbours since 1948.
Hussein was only 13 years old when he watched his grandfather the emir
Abdallah of Transjordan receive Golda Meir, a Zionist emissary and
future Israeli premier, in May 1948.
But the clandestine mission failed to stop Transjordan joining the Arab
war against the new state of Israel on May 15.
In 1963 Hussein, already king, met an Israeli envoy himself in London
and two years later saw Golda Meir, then foreign minister, in Paris, to
discuss the question of borders and water.
The June 1967 war proved a disaster for the king who answered Egypt's
call for support and lost all the West Bank and the eastern sector of
Jerusalem in just three days.
By December the same year, foreign minister Abba Eban fixed up a secret
metting with the king, who carried on the tradition over the next 26
years in 20 or more meetings, according to historians.
Contacts were stepped up when Yitzhak Rabin took power in 1974 and the
two leaders met six times before the right wing won elections in May
1977 and opposed any territorial concessions.
Secret diplomacy took a backseat until 1984, when the Labour Party
joined a national unity government. Two years later Rabin, then defence
minister, saw Hussein in the French town of Strasbourg.
A meeting between foreign minister Shimon Peres and the king in London
on April 11, 1987, has become infamous. Peres believed he had an
agreement to hold an international conference on the Middle East and
accused then prime minister Yitzhak Shamir of sabotaging the deal.
Shamir himself met the king three times between 1987 and 1991 but
without any tangible results. Last week the former premier admitted for
the first time he had seen Hussein, but refused to give details which
he said would break "a gentleman's agreement".
Rabin stormed back to power in the June 1992 elections with a pledge to
seek peace in the Middle East. In September 1993, after the autonomy
deal with the PLO, he had talks with the king on a ship anchored off
the Jordanian Red Sea port of Aqaba.
They met for a ninth time in secret on June 1 this year in London,
according to the Israeli press.
That produced the breakthrough which led to the signing on June 7 of a
detailed agenda for open negotiations on a peace treaty which began
last Monday in the desert just north of the Red Sea.
In between, Peres saw the Jordanian crown prince openly in Washington
on October 1993, the first such public meeting.
Peres summed up the dramatic changes in relations between the
neighbours when he went to Jordan on Wednesday for the first official
visit by an Israeli leader.
"It took us 15 minutes to fly over (from Jerusalem)," he said after
arriving by helicopter on the Jordanian banks of the Dead Sea. "It took
46 years for us to arrive at this place in time."
Rabin and Hussein are expected to announced an end to the state of war.
