Nigerians live in cages to ward off armed robbers, assassins
Nigerians living in Lagos, the nation's commercial capital, and many
other major cities are being forced to live in steel cages to ward off
attacks by armed robbers and paid assassins who operate under the cover
of darkness.
Strong burglar-proof iron is put over the doors, windows and main
entrances of houses and shops to make them impenetrable by night
marauders and unwanted guests, but thereby making the human beings
inside these buildings look like caged animals or prisoners.
The robbers and assassins are most often armed with weapons such as
guns, machetes, axes, knives, batons, broken bottles and acid.
The insufficient number of policemen, most of whom are ill-equipped to
match the sophistication of armed robbers, has made residents look for
other means of assuring themselves protection, one of which is to turn
themselves into caged animals.
For example, Lagos, Nigeria's most-populated city with a population of
six million people, has about 9,000 policemen, making a ratio of one
policeman to nearly 670 people compared with a UN recommendation of one
to 400 people.
Besides the gigantic gates, all the doors in some apartments are backed
up with reinforced with iron bars, with all the attendant risks of
trapping people inside the rooms in the event of fire breaking out.
The erection of gates, some as high as three metres (10 feet), at the
entrances to some major streets in some Nigerian cities, especially in
the centre and outskirts of Lagos, poses much inconveniences to
inhabitants and strangers visiting these areas.
Some of these roads are permanently closed to motorists, even during
the day when they are expected to be opened to allow passage.
Last March, a man who had been seriously sick in his house in Mushin, a
popular residential quarter in Lagos, died while waiting for the big
steel gates leading to his street to be opened to allow access to an
ambulance that would take him to the hospital, residents said.
A police officer who spoke to AFP under cover of anonymity said that
while the police were not against residents seeking complementary
peaceful means of ensuring safety for their lives and property, such
means should be within the law and without infringing the rights of
other people.
In order to combat the recrudescence of armed robbery and other forms
of crime in society, the police announced recently that they have
mounted an all-out war on robbers and assassins.
