A man who escaped from a New York state psychiatric center on Christmas
Eve pushed a 63-year-old woman to her death from a Manhattan subway
platform on Wednesday as a train pulled in, the police said. The
suspect walked away, laughing and babbling gibberish, before he was
tackled by a computer technician who had watched the attack from an
escalator.
The victim was Soon Sin, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, a retired seamstress
who had become an American citizen only a couple of months ago. She was
dragged under the Queens-bound F train, even though officials said the
horrified train operator had slammed on the brakes as he came into the
station at 34th Street and the Avenue of the Americas.
The suspect, Reuben Harris, 42, had been only a few paces away as Mrs.
Sin did something that comes almost as naturally to subway riders as
putting a token in a turnstile -- she leaned over the edge of the
platform and looked into the dark tunnel toward the ever-larger beams
of an approaching train.
Mrs. Sin straightened up. But an instant later, the police said, Harris
moved in from behind. The long, lumbering train was too close to stop
in time.
The bystander who apprehended him, Jonathan Cohen, 26, of Jersey City,
N.J., took action as others on the platform froze in shock or terror.
Cohen followed Harris through the subterranean labyrinth of escalators
and corridors in the station, eventually holding him captive in what
the police called a bear hug until two officers arrived. ``Call the
police, call the police, this man just pushed someone under the
train,'' he yelled.
A paranoid schizophrenic with a long history of drug and alcohol
problems, Harris had been admitted to state mental hospitals 12 times
in the last 18 years, officials said, and had escaped from Manhattan
Pyschiatric Center, on Wards Island, at least four times last year. But
the caseworker assigned to monitor Harris was not informed of his most
recent escape, on Christmas Eve, and found out that he was missing only
when he went to Wards Island for a visit last week.
Officials said they did not know how long Harris, who pleaded guilty to
slashing a subway panhandler with a razor six years ago, had been
wandering through the station on Wednesday before he attacked Mrs. Sin.
There was no indication that he had been stalking Mrs. Sin, who
relatives said was on her way to do volunteer work at a Korean senior
citizens' center in Flushing, N.Y., in the New York City borough of
Queens.
The police said the attack occurred at 9:38 a.m. in a station crowded
with the last wave of the morning's commuters.
Cohen was riding the escalator toward the platform at that moment,
feeling the whoosh of air that signaled the train's arrival. The
escalator turned out to have an unobstructed view of the attack and of
the suspect.
Cohen said later that he decided he could not let Harris get away
``because that could have been my mom, because that could have been a
friend of mine.'' He added: ``I know that someone is going to be lost
without this person in their life.''
Harris, wearing black boots, a black sweatshirt, a green jacket, and an
earring in his left ear, headed for the exit as the train conductor
announced: ``We have a person under the train.'' The passengers gasped.
Cohen followed Harris, jumping him when they reached the token booth.
Lt. Raymond O'Donnell said that the suspect was speaking gibberish and
did not seem to understand the enormity of what had happened. ``He's
not making much sense,'' he said.
Cohen said he was ``a little disappointed'' that no one had helped him
wrestle Harris to the ground. ``Sure, he could have had a gun,'' Cohen
said later, standing in front of reporters who wanted to know what it
means to be a hero. ``I thought about that. But I also knew that he
just can't get away with this.''
He added: ``I don't really think I'm a hero. I think the people who are
going to be the heroes are that lady's family. They have to go on.''
Mrs. Sin, the second subway homicide victim of the year and the first
to be pushed off a platform since last June, was ``a very strong woman,
caring, very family oriented,'' said a cousin, Jeffrey Ahn, 22, of
Staten Island, N.Y.
Relatives said Mrs. Sin and her husband, Kang, a wholesaler, came to
New York from Korea 17 years ago. She worked as a seamstress and was
``a great churchgoer,'' said a neighbor, Rose Wilson. Ahn said she was
a Presbyterian and belonged to a church in Borough Park, Brooklyn.
Mrs. Sin left home around 8 a.m. on Wednesday, the superintendent of
her building, Ronald Potter, said, adding that she had waved to him as
usual before heading for the R train at 95th Street.
The attack was not the first time Harris has been accused of violent
behavior in the subway. He was arrested on April 18, 1988, the
authorities said, when a panhandler on a southbound No. 6 train on the
Lexington Avenue IRT sat down next to him.
``What are you asking me for?'' he bellowed as he slashed the
panhandler's face with a razor.
The victim pulled the emergency cord, stopping the train as it rolled
into the 77th Street station. Harris fled, jumping onto the track
roadbed and scrambling toward the uptown platform. The victim needed 12
stitches to close the wound on his face.
Harris was indicted on second-degree assault charges a few days later
and was arraigned on May 12. His Legal Aid lawyer, Bruce Friedman,
requested a psychiatric evaluation and, on June 9, Harris was found not
fit to stand trial. He wascommitted to Manhattan Psychiatric.
Court officials said on Wednesday that he underwent another evaluation
a few weeks later and was found competent for trial. Friedman asked for
another examination, which yielded the same result. On Nov. 23, he
pleaded guilty to second-degree assault. On Dec. 19, 1988, Acting
Justice Brenda Soloff of state Supreme Court sentenced him to one to
three years in prison. He was released in 1990.
