Last meeting of Nobel committee before peace prize announcement 
The Norwegian Nobel Committee met in Oslo for the last time on
Wednesday ahead of the planned October 11 announcement of the Nobel
peace prize laureate, for which US peace mediator in Bosnia Richard
Holbrooke is the favourite.
At a meeting at the Nobel Institute, the five members of the committee
refused to drop any hints to outsiders as to their intentions, the
Norwegian news agency NTB said.
Asked to comment on whether the committee's choice was a tough one this
year, committee president Francis Sejersted said: "We can't say that it
has been any harder this year than in previous years."
He said that there was a great amount of "pressure" on the committee,
with the entire world scrutinizing its decision.
Sejersted and the other committee members refused to say whether this
year's laureate, or laureates, would be a surprise winner, as was the
case last year.
The decision to honour British physician Joseph Rotblat and his
anti-nuclear movement Pugwash in 1995 took almost everyone by surprise,
including the international press which had been reduced to speculation
in the face of the committee's silence.
This year, 120 candidates, including 29 organisations, were considered
by the Nobel Committee, its secretary Geir Lundestad said recently.
The Norwegian press has speculated for months that Holbrooke is the
favourite for the prize. If he did win, he could share the honours with
US President Bill Clinton for their role in getting Bosnia's warring
parties to sign the Dayton peace accord ending the conflict.
Among other potential candidates whose names have circulated are former
US president Jimmy Carter, jailed Kurdish parliamentarian Leyla Zana,
Chinese dissident Wei Jingsheng and Russian human rights defender
Sergei Kovalev.
Two Catholic bishops, Samuel Ruiz of Mexico and Carlos Felipe Ximenes
of East Timor, have also been nominated, as well as the organisations
Doctors Without Borders and the Salvation Army, according to press
reports.
The winner will this year receive a cheque worth 7.4 million kronor
(1.12 million dollars) -- to be shared if more than one laureate is
rewarded -- at a ceremony on December 10 in Oslo.
