NEW YORK _ Stocks finished mixed Thursday, as blue-chip shares buckled under
some profit-taking, but anything even remotely connected to the computer
industry continued to forge higher. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial
stocks closed with a minimal loss, while broad-market indexes were
mixed. The Nasdaq composite and American Stock Exchange's market value
index were trading at record highs late in the session, boosted by
continued buoyancy in computer-related issues. On the Big Board, declining
issues led advancers by about 4 to 3. Volume was moderately heavy. TOKYO _
A new trade conflict is heating up between Japan and the United States,
this time over aviation, and conflict also looms over efforts to win a
bigger share of Japan's telecommunications market. Negotiators are
``farther apart'' after a day of talks Thursday on air routes, said chief
Japanese negotiator Masahide Ochi of the Ministry of Transportation. Japan
has refused to grant U.S. carriers new routes from Japan to other Asian
nations, saying a 1952 accord unfairly allows U.S. carriers many more such
flights than Japanese counterparts are permitted from the United
States. The U.S. side has threatened sanctions. Japan has said it would
retaliate. PARIS _ Climbing slowly out of recession, the European
automobile industry grew a sluggish 1.4 percent over the first half of this
year, the European Automobile Manufacturers Association said
Thursday. Germany, Europe's largest market, reflected the slow growth, with
only a 1.6 percent increase in auto demand for the six months. In Europe's
other top markets, France jumped 7.7 percent and Spain grew 1.5 percent,
while Britain slipped 0.5 percent and Italy sank by 0.6 percent. MEXICO
CITY _ The country's economic crisis has devastated the domestic automobile
industry, the daily Reforma reported Thursday. It quoted the Mexican
Automobile Industry Association as saying sales in the first six months of
1995 fell to only 89,446 vehicles from 302,370 for the same period last
year. Mexico now exports four cars for every one sold domestically. A
sudden devaluation of the peso starting Dec. 20 set off a sharp economic
plunge and sent interest rates soaring, making automobile purchases vastly
more expensive almost overnight. PARIS _ The French oil group Total SA said
Thursday it has signed a contract with Iran to develop oil fields after
Washington barred U.S.-based Conoco from the deal worth hundreds of
millions of dollars. Conoco was forced to abandon its bid in March, when
the Clinton Administration banned U.S. companies from contracts to produce
oil in Iran, which it accuses of supporting international terrorism.
Developing the Sirri A and E offshore oil fields, close to the Dubai
border, is expected to take five years. Total estimates its overall
investment will reach dlrs 600 million during that period. First production
is expected to begin within less than three years. LONDON _ The government
on Thursday awarded a 2.5 billion-pound (dlrs 4 billion) order for 67 army
attack helicopters to Britain's Westland Helicopters and McDonnell Douglas
Corp. of the United States. The order, one of the largest British defense
contracts of the decade, provoked a fierce, two-year lobbying battle among
six contractors who bid, including British Aerospace PLC and America's
Boeing Co.
