Central bank sees Indonesia 4th quarter GDP growth at 3.3-3.6 pct
Bank Indonesia said Wednesday it expected economic growth in the
country to reach 3.3-3.6 percent year-on-year in the fourth quarter
amid improved economic activity.
"Economic conditions in the first two months of the fourth quarter were
marked by increasing demand in line with improvement of various
economic activities related with year-end festivities, including Idul
Fitri," the central bank said referring to the end of the Muslim
fasting month.
"As a result Bank Indonesia expects that fourth quarter GDP growth will
grow by 3.3-3.6 percent" year-on-year, it said in a statement.
This translated to full-year gross domestic product growth of 3.5-4.0
percent, in line with its projections.
Bank Indonesia, however, said the improvement in economic activity was
accompanied by "persistent increases" in the price of goods.
"Therefore, monetary policy must be carried out prudently in order to
maintain monetary stability and keep the momentum of the economic
recovery," it said.
Third quarter economic conditions showed some positive signs including
GDP growth of 3.47 percent year-on-year, slightly higher than the
second quarter level of 3.32 percent.
On the supply side, a central bank survey showed increased
month-on-month output for processing industries. It gave no details.
It said banking conditions had also showed signs of improvement as
indicated by increases in third party funds as well as bank loan
extensions.
In October third party funds rose by 24.9 trillion rupiah (2.4 billion
dollars) from the previous month to 760.7 trillion rupiah, while loan
extensions increased by 15.59 trillion rupiah to 371.95 trillion
rupiah.
Bank Indonesia said rupiah liquidity for the rest of 2001 was likely to
increase in line with rising demand for paper notes as well as an
expected increase in government expenditure to cover subsidized goods.
If the increased demand is not accompanied by increased supply of goods
and increased distribution efficiencies, pressure on goods prices may
continue, the bank said.
The central bank said it would continue directing medium to long-term
monetary policy with a view to pushing inflation lower.
It would also focus its monetary policy on progressively reducing
reserve money growth, which is currently at high levels.
