Taylor's rebels attack Liberian army, minister claims 
Rebels of Charles Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL)
attacked soldiers of a rival armed group in Louisville before dawn
Tuesday, a minister in Liberia's transitional government said here
Wednesday.
Assistant Defense Minister Arthur Dennis said "about 200 NPFL fighters
attacked positions of the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL) in Louisville,"
some 20 kilometers from the port city of Buchanan, 90 kilometers (60
miles) south-east of Monrovia.
One AFL soldier was "seriously wounded" in the attack, and is presently
receiving treatment at a military clinic, the minister said, but he
gave no casualty figure for the NPFL.
Since the peace accord signed at Cotonou in Benin in July 1993, no
fighting has been reported until now between any of the three
signatories (AFL, NPFL and United Movement of Liberation - ULIMO).
Dennis said the situation was now under control, adding that everything
was being done "to pursue the NPFL fighters to a reasonable distance in
order to avoid a recurrence of the incident."
The attack has been reported to the ECOMOG African peacekeeping forces
and the UN observer mission in Liberia (UNOMIL), the minister said.
The defense ministry also said it had received reports that a
3,000-strong party from the neighbouring state of Burkina Faso had
crossed via Ivory Coast into Gbarnga, the NPFL headquarter town 160
kilometers (100 miles) north-east of Monrovia. Dennis claimed this was
part of plans by Taylor for a new offensive.
"Taylor has instructed his men to blast all bridges along the
Monrovia-Buchanan highway," the minister quoted the report as saying.
NPFL-controlled radio in Gbarnga said Sunday Taylor has ordered NPFL
fighters to take positions on a highway to Buchanan, 90 kilometers (60
miles) south-east of Monrovia, to prevent the rival armed Liberia Peace
Council (LPC) transporting arms to its men.
In another incident, fighting was also reported to have broken out
before dawn Tuesday between factions from the rival Mandingo and Krahn
clans within the armed United Liberation Movement (ULIMO) near a
displaced camp in Brewerville, 20 kilometers (12 miles) north-west of
Monrovia.
Witnesses said Mandingo fighters loyal to Alhaji Kromah attacked rival
Krahn militia of General Roosevelt Johnson took over the area following
few hours of fighting.
