Article Urges More Financial Reform 
A signed article on Sunday's Business Weekly urged the Government to
enhance supervision over foreign financial sectors in China but lower
restrictions on the entry of overseas banks.
Mu Yibin, holder of doctorate from the Graduate School of the People's
Bank of China, said in the article that China should enhance
supervision over the financial sector in the light of the Asian
financial turmoil.
Due to the impact of the Asian financial crisis, the total assets,
outstanding loans and capital inflows of foreign banking organizations
located in China declined in 1998 for the first time since the country
opened its door to foreign banks in the early 1980s.
The article said that the fallout from the crisis requires Chin a's
financial supervision authorities to keep a closer eye on the risks
lurking in these foreign banking organizations, especially those from
the worst-affected countries.
Some wholly-owned foreign banks and joint-venture banks should be urged
to improve their internal management systems since they are at greater
risk due to their small size and limited capital resources.
In addition, the article said that China should accelerate the
financial opening-up drive and continue to foster an upbeat environment
for foreign investors in 1999, and that the central bank could consider
canceling the restrictions on the location of foreign banks' outlets in
China.
The article also suggested the central bank consider lowering the
threshold for the entry of foreign banks' representative offices, since
most countries place few restrictions on the entry of representative
offices of overseas banks.
"It would be better to concentrate on stricter supervision rather than
tough entry requirements," said the article.
Currently, a total of 23 cities and one province are open to foreign
banks. By June 1997, there were 540 foreign financial institutions in
China, including banks, insurance companies, branches of banks, finance
companies and investment banks.
