London firm's claim to 800 mln dlrs of Marcos money "suspicious" 
A government official on Tuesday branded as "suspicious" the
800-million-dollar claim by a London-based finance company on the Swiss
bank assets of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
Marcos reportedly borrowed 800 million dollars from Refal 196 during
his exile in Hawaii after his overthrow by popular revolt in 1986, and
signed promisory notes, which Refal is using to claim the money.
"The promisory note is suspicious," said presidential legal counsel
Antonio Carpio, pointing out that the London company had lent the 800
million dollars without asking for collateral.
The Marcos money in Swiss banks is estimated at 500 million dollars.
Magtanggol Gunigundo, head of a government agency charged with
recovering Marcos's alleged ill-gotten wealth, said Refal first
surfaced about two years ago when the group informed Swiss courts that
Marcos had borrowed from it.
However, he added that Swiss Magistrate Peter Cosandey "brushed aside
the (Refal) claim stating that the claim will not be a hindrance to the
transfer in escrow" of 500 million dollars of Marcos' money to
Philippine banks.
Refal is the fourth claimant to the Marcos assets in Switzerland alon
with the Manila government, victims of human rights violations during
his rule and the late dictator's heirs.
On Monday, the Philippine government and human rights victims announced
a 100-million-dollar settlement of about two billion dollars in claims
by the plaintiffs.
The deal still has to be approved by the Marcos family, President Fidel
Ramos and a judge in Hawaii, who last year ruled that the Marcos estate
was liable for human rights abuses during his regime.
The deal calls on the government to give 50 million dollars from the
Swiss money and for the Marcos family to give an additional 50 million
dollars of their own funds.
Several human rights victims have opposed the agreement as it calls for
the dropping of further claims against the Marcoses.
