Turnaround in Australian wool industry boosted by economic growth
After its worst slump since World War II, Australia's wool industry has
experienced a dramatic turnaround fuelled by soaring Chinese demand,
economic recovery in Europe and a poor cotton harvest.
A mountain of stockpiled wool that grew to 4.7 million bales (470,000
tonnes) at the worst of the slump three years ago has shrunk by more
than a million bales, much of it since the recovery gathered pace
earlier this year, industry officials said Tuesday.
Yet only a year ago, the industry had to resist advice to burn the
stockpile to protect prices.
Rising prices here are now even boosting overseas share-prices. For
instance, in Taipei on Monday the shares of one company Reward Wool
rocketed by the permitted ceiling of seven percent, or five Taiwan
dollars, to 78 dollars (2.88 US dollars).
Wool is once again contributing to strong economic growth in Australia,
with agricultural exports, particularly wool production, increasing by
a seasonally adjusted 4.4 percent in the first quarter this year.
Although still well below the high prices of more than 1,000 Australian
cents (7.20 US dollars) a kilogram (2.2 pounds) clean in the boom years
of 1987-1988, prices have leapt by 50 percent from the recent record
low of 412 cents on September 3 last year to 628 cents here last
Friday.
"That's an incredible rise," Wool International policy and planning
manager Sylvia Kelly said Tuesday.
Kelly told AFP the strong demand had been evident from March this year
and Chinese buying had been the mainstay of the market, continuing even
during recent price rises.
"That's a bit unusual because they tend to be price sensitive buyers
but they have hung in there and continued to buy," she said.
"Another factor is the trough of the recession in Europe and Japan
seems to have passed and there's now increasing buying from western
European countries.
"For several months there has been indications of higher consumer
spending and increased retail activity in both the United States and
Britain."
Kelly said Germany and Japan have been slowest to emerge from
recession, but buying had increased in France and Italy which had
turned the corner.
"Normally the March quarter is the strongest quarter of the year and
the fourth tails off a bit, but that is not what we are seeing in the
fourth quarter this year. It is still going from strength to strength
and it has gone up so quickly one wonders if it can be sustained at
that level."
A drop in cotton production caused by a bad harvest has also been good
for the wool industry, pushing up cotton prices and turning attention
to traditional substitutes of wool and man-made fibres.
Wool broker Dalgety Farmers Ltd. said the market was experiencing a
renewal of optimism and prices were likely to continue to rise.
"The medium term outlook for wool is positive," said general manager
Ted Harnett. "Our optimism has been reflected in the recent increases
in wool prices and we see that trend continuing in the foreseeable
future.
"We are now seeing the wool market hit a new level. Demand and supply
are coming quickly into balance."
He said the wool market was changing because producers were looking for
better ways to sell their clip in what had been a highly volatile
environment.
"This represents an exciting and challenging time for the wool industry
over the next two to three years," he said.
