Oil Prices Unfazed By Iraqi Scare, But Beware...
``The crisis fabricated by the Iraqi regime and its crazy leadership
has not affected us at all.'' So far, the bluff diagnosis of Sheikh Ali
Jaber al-Ali al-Sabah, a manager at Kuwait's national oil firm, has
been borne out by the behavior of oil traders.
Up a few cents one moment, down a few the next: the price of Brent
crude has never moved far above $17 a barrel.
In contrast, when Saddam Hussein last got belligerent, in 1990, the
price briefly spiked above $40 a barrel.
Still, anyone tempted to feel complacent should think twice. The main
reason why the market was unperturbed by 80,000 Iraqi troops marching
up and down Kuwait's border is that traders did not expect them to get
anywhere near the country's oil wells.
So far, everything -- from the West's rapid response, to the withdrawal
of Iraq's forces -- suggests the market is right to take a sanguine
view of Saddam's latest expedition.
But if Kuwait's oil production really were interrupted, the world will
find it far harder to cope now than it did in 1990.
Back then, economic growth was so feeble that higher oil prices were
enough to cause a fall in demand. Markets were so slack and Iraq so
broke that as long as Saudi Arabia was willing to push up its
production, the West could be confident it needed Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil
less than Saddam Hussein needed western money.
Things are different now. Growth has recovered in America and Britain;
it is picking up in the rest of Europe; and even Japan's economy is
twitching again.
The International Energy Agency in Paris expects oil demand in the new
year to be almost 1 million barrels a day (b/d) higher than it was a
year earlier.
With Iraqi oil still kept off the market by the United Nations
sanctions, there is only 2-2.5 million b/d of spare OPEC capacity
outside Kuwait (3 percent of world demand), according to the Petroleum
Finance Company, which is based in Washington, D.C.
This would be barely enough to cover the loss of Kuwait's 1.85 million
b/d of production, especially as consumers tend to build up stocks at
the first whiff of shortage, pushing demand higher than it would
otherwise be.
In such a tight market, prices are sensitive to the slightest
interruption of supply. When Nigerian oil workers went on strike in the
summer, taking only 340,000 b/d out of production, the price of oil
shot up by more than $3 a barrel.
The same logic suggests that Iraq's return to international oil markets
will send prices lower.
As long as Iraq can reopen its export pipeline through Turkey and
protect it against attacks from Kurdish rebels, the country could
probably export 1 million b/d immediately, and double that within a
year, when its southern export terminals into the Gulf could be
working.
Even if the permanent members of the U.N. Security Council settle their
differences over Iraq's political obligations, this will continue to
divide them.
America wants to help its ally, Saudi Arabia, which would suffer from
Iraqi exports either through lower prices or through lost market share,
and probably both. That would be a reverse for a country with a large
budget deficit.
But France and Russia see it slightly differently. France's Total and
Elf, and a consortium of oil companies from Russia, including Lukoil
and Rozneftegazstroy, have separately managed to secure prize acreage
for producing Iraqi oil.
For them, the end of sanctions will mark the beginning of the real
excitement.
