Hijackers paid half a million dollars in apparent hostage deal 
Two Azerbaijani men claiming to be armed with a bomb hijacked a Russian
passenger plane and obtained a ransom of 500,000 dollars from Russian
authorities Wednesday after releasing six of about 15 persons held on
board, police said.
Nine other passengers and crew were still believed aboard the Yak-40
plane, blocked on a runway by interior ministry special forces at an
airport in the Caspian republic of Dagestan, although there was
confusion about the exact number of remaining prisoners.
Russian officials were negotiating with the hijackers, who had earlier
threatened to blow up the airliner unless they were paid two million
dollars and given enough fuel to fly to Iran.
Five passengers and a crew member jumped from the plane as a package
containing the money was handed over to the kidnappers, police said.
The exact number of hostages was unclear. Earlier in Moscow, interior
ministry spokesman Alexei Petrenko told AFP that 12 hostages, nine
passengers and three crew members were still on board the plane
Wednesday morning.
On Tuesday night, a quarter of an hour into a flight to Rostov, two men
aged 22 and 30 armed with at least one grenade forced the plane to
return to the airport in Makhachkala, the capital of the tiny Russian
republic on the western shore of the Caspian.
The hijackers threatened to blow up the plane but let one deadline
pass. They demanded two million dollars and enough fuel to fly to Iran.
On Wednesday afternoon two trucks were parked near the plane, one of
which contained the jet fuel.
One of the hijackers was seen holding a package he said contained a
bomb while the other was brandishing a knife.
About 30 people were thought to have been on board the flight. The
hijackers began releasing them during the night.
The hijacking is the fifth in a series in the volatile Caucasus region.
The last, on July 28, ended in a bloodbath when five hostages and a
hijacker were killed after security forces stormed the plane.
The interior ministry spokesman said that members of the hijackers'
families were expected to arrive at the airport later in the day. It
was hoped they could persuade the men to surrender.
The Russian ambassador in Iran has requested Tehran's permission to let
the airliner fly into its airspace if necessary, but no reply has yet
been received and the Russians fear the request will be turned down,
the agency ITAR-TASS reported.
In Tehran, the Iranian foreign ministry said for its part that Iran
would "spare no effort" in trying to solve the problem "in case a
request is made by Russia."
A ministry spokesman, Mahud Mohammadi, told IRNA news agency that Iran
was "deeply concerned about the safety of the passengers on board."
In the last hijacking, five hostages, four women and a girl, and a
hijacker were killed when security forces stormed the plane. Six other
hostages and five of the security forces were injured.
The three surviving hijackers have been sentenced to death.
The four who seized the aircraft at Mineralnye Vodi in southern Russia
near the Moslem republic of Chechnya had demanded 15 million dollars
ransom.
The storming of that plane was a departure from the previous Russian
stance of persuasion and negotiation during three other hijackings in
the Caucasus on December 23, 1993, and May 26 and June 28 of this year.
