Ukrainian Parliament Approves Key Nuclear Treaty 
In a major boost for worldwide nuclear arms reduction efforts,
Ukraine's parliament on Wednesday approved the long-stalled nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The vote, which carried 301-8 with 20 abstentions, followed months of
intense diplomatic lobbying by the international community,
particularly the United States. It is a significant step in
strengthening ties between the West and Ukraine, the world's
third-largest nuclear power.
``By this action, we have proved our intention to proceed toward
complete nuclear disarmament,'' said Vyacheslav Chornovil, leader of
the main nationalist party Rukh.
Ukraine inherited an arsenal of 176 nuclear missiles and around 1,800
nuclear warheads when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.
Although Ukraine has begun dismantling a significant number of its
intercontinental missiles as part of a U.S.-funded three-way agreement
among Washington, Moscow and Kiev, it had hesitated in ratifying the
Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Officials had cited insufficient financial compensation and a lack of
security guarantees from Russia and other states.
``Obstacles halting accession to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
have been overcome,'' Foreign Minister Hennady Udovenko told
legislators Wednesday.
He said satisfactory guarantees in the form of a multinational
memorandum signed by the United States, Britain and Russia had, after
months of negotiations, been received just hours earlier. A similar
security assurance will be issued by France, Udovenko assured
legislators.
Udovenko heralded the security pledges as a ``triumph for Ukrainian
diplomacy and Ukrainian independence.'' He stressed that they included
assurances against Ukraine being attacked by both nuclear and
conventional weapons together with substantial financial support from
the West.
President Leonid Kuchma, elected last July, has staked a great deal of
his political credibility on steering the treaty through an often
recalcitrant parliament.
The former missile plant director has portrayed possession of the
weapons, which Ukraine has no capability to launch, as a profound
liability.
``Experts estimate it will cost 10 billion to 30 billion dollars a year
to keep nuclear weapons,'' Kuchma told legislators. ``It means we have
to sell all our possessions to keep them.''
``Delay (in approval) will only jeopardize our nation's sovereignty and
security,'' he said.
Both President Leonid Kuchma and the United States were pushing for the
treaty to be accepted by legislators before his state visit to
Washington next week.
Ukraine's accession further commits the former Soviet republic of 52
million people to attain nuclear-free status by about the turn of the
century.
Washington has strongly backed Ukraine's new economic reforms under
Kuchma this year, spurring Kiev to proceed with its denuclearization
program.
Around dlrs 350 million of dlrs 700 million in U.S. aid for Ukraine in
1994 was targeted at dismantling Ukraine's nuclear stockpile.
U.S. Ambassador William Miller described Wednesday's decision as ``a
major step in the post-Cold War order that is being constructed by the
new nations.''
Ukraine's participation in the global treaty will lift U.S. export
restrictions on high-technology, space and aeronautic equipment and
remove a Russian condition for its implementation of the START-1
treaty.
Ukraine's formal signing of the treaty will take place Dec. 5 or 6 at a
meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Budapest,
Hungary, Kuchma said.
