Dole, Gingrich Demands Delay U.N. Vote on Bosnia Force
Republican congressional leaders endorsed a French proposal Thursday to
create a rapid-reaction force to protect U.N. forces is Bosnia but
balked at helping pay for it with U.S. funds or committing American
troops to the operation.
The demands by House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate Majority Leader
Bob Dole prompted the United Nations Security Council meeting in New
York to postpone a vote that had been scheduled for Thursday on
creating the force.
In a letter to President Clinton, Gingrich and Dole insisted that any
U.N. resolution make clear that the cost of the force would be assessed
to U.N. members and that ``no additional U.S. financial or military
obligations will be incurred as a result of the resolution.''
Gingrich and Dole said in the letter that efforts by the French and
other countries with troops in Bosnia to protect their forces ``should
be respected.''
But they said the French President Jacques Chirac, in a meeting with
them earlier this week, ``assured us he was only seeking U.S. political
support, and not a financial commitment.''
``In view of this assurance, we would not object to your
administration's decision to support President Chirac's efforts to
protect UNPROFOR (U.N. protective force) troops,'' Gingrich and Dole
wrote.
The Clinton administration had been holding up U.N. consideration until
it could get a sense of the congressional reaction. The United Nations
had envisioned the United States paying about one-third of the force's
cost, estimated to total $270 million for the first six months.
A U.S. official, briefing reporters at the United Nations on condition
of anonymity, said the ``unsolved congressional problem'' over funding
was holding up approval.
``We are working with Congress. We want to meet the reasonable concerns
of Congress,'' the official said ``Congress is expressing its
frustration at how UNPROFOR is operating. It is questioning whether an
additional budgetary obligation should be incurred.''
The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the Clinton
administration is exploring funding options. He said one possibility is
making the funding voluntary.
Clinton, the official said, was expected to discuss the issue with
other Group of Seven leaders holding an economic summit this week in
Halifax, Canada.
Dole and Gingrich said Chirac had assured them that troops in the
proposed force would wear their national uniforms, not the U.N. blue
helmets. The troops also would not be subject to vetoes by U.N.
officials that members of Congress have blamed for crippling the
operation in Bosnia.
``We would like to emphasize that our concurrence for measures to
protect UNPROFOR, such as the RRF, should in no way be interpreted as
support for the present European and administration approach to the war
in Bosnia,'' they wrote.
