U.S. Retail Sales Rise Slightly in September 
U.S. retail sales rose just 0.1 percent in September to a seasonally
adjusted 253.4 billion U. S. dollars, the Commerce Department reported
Thursday.
The September increase, slightly worse than expected, followed a
revised 1.5 percent gain in August. But total retail sales have held
steady most months of this year and were 10.5 percent higher than
September of last year, the report said.
Analysts said last month's performance may be a sign that the Federal
Reserve's two interest rate increases are beginning to slow consumer
spending.
The consumer sector is being supported by the lowest unemployment rate
in nearly three decades, a 4.2 percent level that has given more
workers cash to spend.
Overall retail sales were held back by a 1.3 decline in sales of new
cars and trucks by automobile dealerships in September. That followed a
strong 3.1 percent increase the month before. The auto industry is
anticipating a record sales year in 1999.
If excluding the volatile autos category, retail sales rose a brisk 0.6
percent in September. Many analysts were expecting a 0.5 percent gain.
Last month, sales at apparel and accessory stores dropped 0.9 percent
following a 1.2 percent gain the month before.
Also, sales at hardware and building supply stores were down 0. 6
percent in September despite Hurricane Floyd, which raked the East
Coast last month. That category, which also includes mobile home
dealers, posted a 0.4 percent gain in August.
However, the report showed that sales at furniture and home furnishing
stores posted a solid 1.2 percent increase in September after 0.7
percent gain in August.
The biggest gain in September came from sales at gasoline stations,
which were up 2.4 percent reflecting rising energy prices. That
followed a 2.7 percent rise in August.
The nation's biggest retailers last week reported that sales rose
modestly in September as the robust U.S. economy continued to encourage
shoppers to spend despite volatility in the stock market, rising
interest rates and the hurricane.
