Hungarian minority under fire in Romania
Despite calls to extremists on both side to calm down as tensions rose
between Romania and Hungary, the ethnic Hungarian minority here is
coming under sustained fire again because of its political claims to
autonomy.
In a bid to defuse the crisis, government officials began talks this
week at the Carter Center in Atlanta, Georgia, with the Hungarian
Democratic Federation of Romania on Romanian-Hungarian relations. The
government's top official for minority affairs, Viorel Hrebenciuc, is
taking part in the dialogue.
In a radio interview from there Federation leader Bela Marko complained
that there was "an enormous contradiction" between what was happening
in Romania and the statements its official representatives made abroad.
He was referring to a resolution passed by parliament here the day
before the Carter Center talks opened, criticising him for "extremist
remarks."
Marko has accused the authorities of trying to assimilate the Hungarian
minority, which according to official figures numbers 1.7 million
people, or 7.1 percent of the country's population.
Marko also questioned the constitution's definition of Romania as a
national state, which he said was incompatible with respect for
minority rights. His party voted against the constitution in December
1992.
The coalition government's leading component, the Party of Social
Democracy, formerly the Democratic National Salvation Front, and its
nationalist and ex-communist allies on Monday presented draft
legislation which would require members of parliament and other elected
persons, plus top civil servants, to swear an oath of loyalty to the
constitution and the Romanian state.
Such a move would put the Hungarian movement under severe pressure, and
Marko has already warned that isolating the party could radicalise it
and its electorate.
The government said last week it would probe a ceremony the Federation
organised in a small town in Transylvania in memory of a Hungarian
author at which the Hungarian national anthem was sung and Hungarian
flags flown.
A 1994 law restricts the use of foreign emblems on Romanian territory
to official visits, international meetings and sports competitions.
Offenders are liable to up to three years in prison.
Increasing the isolation of the Hungarian minority party, which won
7.45 percent of the vote in the 1992 general election, is a reminder
from other opposition parties that it must undertake to respect the
constitution, otherwise further cooperation would be impossible.
There was a storm at the end of January when the Hungarian movement was
threatened with a ban for yet again staking its claim to autonomy on an
ethnic basis.
Calm returned when neighbouring Hungary made its displeasure clear.
Romania has to be careful about such political turmoil as it is
negotiating a friendship treaty with Hungary and hopes it can be signed
before March 21, when a conference on stability in Europe is to be held
in France.
Concerned for its international reputation, the president's office has
called all "extremists" to order.
That meant not just Marko's wilder followers.
There were harsh words too for fervid Romanian nationalist Gheorghe
Funar, leader of the Party of Romanian National Unity, who was warned
there could be no further cooperation with the authorities if he failed
tone down his anti-Magyar rhetoric.
