Work Harder to Aid Poor Farmers: Zhu Rongji 
China's Vice-Premier Zhu Rongji has called for greater efforts be made
to aid the poor in the country's rural areas, and to invigorate the
rural economy.
While inspecting northwest China's Gansu Province from June 29 to July
5, Zhu told local officials that the government's major national policy
is to solve food problems for most poor rural residents by the end of
the century.
He said, "the campaign of aiding the poor involves the rural economy,
agricultural development and the livelihoods of rural residents. It is
an important issue for narrowing the difference between town and
country, between workers and farmers, and between different regions."
He went on to say: "If the rural economy in central and western China
which accounts for two-thirds of China's territory can not grow
rapidly, and if the earnings of rural residents in the area cannot
increase, state-owned manufacturers would lack the markets on which
they depend for development, and it would be impossible for China to
improve its overall economic returns and create a socialist market
economy."
During his stay in Gansu, Zhu, who is also a Standing Committee member
of the Political Bureau of the Chinese Communist Party Central
Committee, visited farmer families in central Gansu, an arid and
underdeveloped area.
He told local farmers that the Chinese Communist Party Central
Committee and the State Council, China's highest administrative body,
have taken effective and feasible measures to aid poor areas in
eliminating poverty.
He called on people in poor areas to do all they can to eliminate
poverty at an early date.
The vice-premier also expressed support to the efforts of the
governments and people in arid area in northwest China to combine the
undertakings of major water-diversion projects with the control of soil
erosion in valleys.
Zhu Rongji also inspected the Liujiaxia Hydroelectric Power Station on
the Yellow River and a number of state-owned enterprises, and held
talks with executives of nine major state-owned enterprises in the
Gansu provincial capital of Lanzhou.
He noted that it is unrealistic to use one model, or one method, to
solve all problems overnight that state-owned enterprises have
encountered, because the problems are left over from history.
He promised the government has already taken, and will take, a series
of measures to help state-owned enterprises overcome their
difficulties.
