Nash says mine deadline "unrealistic"
A senior US general criticised as "unrealistic" Tuesday a crucial
deadline set by the Dayton agreement for the removal of landmines from
Bosnia's frontlines.
A deadline of midnight last Friday -- by which time the parties had to
remove dismantle or destroy all mines and explosive devices from the
zones of separation -- was not met.
"Of course it fell behind schedule," General William Nash told
reporters after chairing a meeting of generals from Bosnia's former
warring parties.
"It was an unrealistic schedule with respect to clearing all the mines
here, but everybody is committing to get the job done," added Nash,
commando of the NATO-led peacekeeping force known as IFOR in
northeastern Bosnia.
Nash said a variety of matters had been discussed at the joint military
commission meeting, attended by Croat, Moslem and Serb military
commanders.
The ebullient, cigar-toting general brought his forceful personality to
bear on the former enemies, back-slapping and hand-clasping his way
through the assorted uniforms after the meeting, bringing smiles to
faces etched by war.
"I would describe the meeting as productive, professional and I would
tell you that there were no major areas that we had big problems in,"
said an upbeat Nash, describing cooperation between the parties and
IFOR as "excellent."
"We have no problems at all that we don't see being resolved. The
biggest issue of course is clearing mines, and we all know that's a big
challenge we must overcome."
The UN estimates that up to six million mines litter the country,
mainly along frontline areas.
Asked what guarantees he had received at the meeting that the mines
would be cleared, Nash said: "they're all working on it. Every day we
have people out trying to clear mines. They have withdrawn their forces
and they understand that the burden for peace is on their shoulders."
The mines continue to take a toll, however.
Four Danish soldiers were slightly injured when their Leopard tank hit
a mine near the northern town of Doboj on Tuesday morning, IFOR said.
They were airlifted to a Norwegian military hospital in Tuzla.
A Bosnian Croat soldier was killed while mine-clearing in the British
IFOR sector last week, IFOR spokesman Major Peter Bullock said, adding
that the warring parties had been "generally cooperative" in marking
and dismantling mines.
"It's a huge task given that there are 1,1OO kilometres of
confrontation line," said Bullock.
General Momir Talic, the commander of the Bosnian Serb army's Krajina
division, said it would take "more than six months" to clear the mines.
"It is not realistic to expect the removal of mines in so short a time
after four years of war," he said.
The Serb general also said his forces would respect the next Dayton
deadline of "D plus 45" -- 45 days after the December 20 UN handover to
IFOR, or February 3. By that date, some territories are due to be
exchanged between the former warring parties.
