Russia and the United States to engage in judicial and police cooperation
Russia and the United States agreed Monday to sign judicial and police
cooperation accords to try to fight organised crime, after the FBI
chief expressed fears of illicit traffic in nuclear bomb-making
materials.
Louis Freeh, director of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI),
said after his meeting with Alexei Iliushenko, Russia's attorney
general, that "this is just the first building block of what we hope
will be a broad and deep relationship."
In a televised interview Sunday from Moscow, Freeh said there have been
many confirmed reports of small amounts of enriched radioactive
materials from Russia being bought or sold in Europe.
Iliushenko said he and Freeh had agreed to sign a treaty soon which
would "concern extradition and legal aid in criminal affairs."
The proposal, made by Iliushenko, was immediately approved by Freeh. "I
totally support your proposal for a treaty. That is a practical means
we can use to exchange witnesses, evidence and bank records," he said
at a press conference.
Freeh, who arrived in Moscow on Saturday for a three-day visit, is
scheduled on Tuesday to sign a "cooperation protocol" with the Russian
interior minister, said First Deputy Interior Minister Mikhail Egorov,
cited by Interfax.
"This protocol will be the legal base upon which we will build our
cooperation, which is developing very nicely," Egorov said after
meetings with Freeh and Minister of the Interior Viktor Erin.
Senior Russian law and order officials have been calling for stronger
cooperation with the United States in view of the growing problem of
organised crime in Russia.
"We are open to all kinds of cooperation in the fight against drug
trafficking, organised crime and economic crime," Iliushenko said.
"There is not a single question which we do not agree on," Erin said.
Freeh reaffirmed his implicit general support for controversial
anti-mafia measures taken by Russian President Boris Yeltsin.
A presidential decree signed on June 14 gives so much power to police
that the Russian parliament and many experts say it is unconsitutitonal
and against basic human rights.
But Freeh said "I was very impressed by the speed with which the
government is taking important legislative steps to find tools to fight
organised crime."
"Unlike in the United States, where it took the FBI 50 years to
acknowledge the existence of organised crime, the ministers and the
government here have moved very quickly to acknowledge the problem," he
said.
But he stressed that "perhaps most important in the decree of President
Yeltsin... is a setting forth of the very important protection for
human rights that have to be balanced with the protection of public
safety."
Freeh was Monday scheduled to meet the director of the federal
counter-espionnage service (FSK, successor to the KGB), Sergei
Stepashin, the only Russian official known to have reservations about
cooperation with the United States.
Stepashin, quoted Monday by ITAR-TASS, said that Freeh should back his
recent statement that there was a traffic in nuclear fuel from Russia.
Otherwise, the FSK head said, the Russian opposition could interpret
the FBI's interest in the question as a first step in putting Russian
nuclear plants under US control.
In his interview Sunday, Freeh said a small amount of highly enriched
and weapons-grade plutonium was found during a police search last month
in the German city of Stuttgart.
There has been no evidence of any diversion of significant amounts of
material for making nuclear bombs, Freeh said. But he added the risk
was there and "it is, for us, a major threat."
ITAR-TASS noted that while Freeh will inaugurate the FBI's first office
in Russia on Monday, Washington had not said an FSK office could open
there, contrary to France, Germany, the Czech Republic and Poland.
