The Army pilot whose helicopter was shot down over North Korea last
month did not violate the military's Code of Conduct when he signed a
statement saying he had committed an ``intolerable crime'' when his
aircraft ``illegally intruded'' into North Korean territory, Pentagon
officials said Friday.
Military officials say the statement by the pilot, Chief Warrant
Officer Bobby Hall, merely recounted that he and his co-pilot, Chief
Warrant Officer David Hilemon, got lost on a routine training flight
and accidentally strayed into the North on Dec. 17. Hilemon was killed.
``Although there is an ongoing investigation into the circumstances of
the accident, I don't believe that his statement violates the tenets of
the Code of Conduct,'' said Maj. Bob Potter, a Defense Department
spokesman.
The fifth article of the military's Code of Conduct states: ``When
questioned, should I become a prisoner of war, I am required to give
name, rank, service number and date of birth. I will evade answering
questions to the utmost of my ability. I will make no oral or written
statements disloyal to my country and its allies or harmful to their
causes.''
Military officials say the language is intended to allow prisoners some
discretion if they are facing torture or other life-threatening
circumstances.
The military adopted the code in 1955, in part as a response to the use
of prisoners for political propaganda in the Korean War, said David
Burrelli, a national defense specialist at the Congressional Research
Service.
But the code has always been open to interpretation. Burrelli said the
code was intended to give young, inexperienced ground troops a standard
of conduct if they were captured. But it was also flexible enough for
more experienced officers, typically pilots, to exercise their judgment
to survive in life-threatening situations.
The military modified the language and interpretation somewhat after
the Vietnam War to account for the pressures to make propaganda
statements that U.S. prisoners of war might face.
Lt. Comdr. Jeffrey Zaun, a Navy A-6 bombardier shot down during the
Persian Gulf war and captured by Iraq, said in a telephone interview
Friday that he had read statements critical of the United States on
television because ``they had a gun and told me they were going to kill
me.''
Each of the armed services teaches the code to officers and enlisted
troops in their regular training. Pilots, commandos and other troops
exposed to greater risks typically receive additional training in
survival school.
Zaun said the Navy's week-long course, for instance, trains pilots how
to handle hostile interrogations. ``It's about as stressful as it can
get and still be safe,'' said Zaun, who said he was beaten by his
captors.
Hall said in interviews on four television networks Thursday that he
wrote only what the North Koreans dictated to him, and agreed to that
only after arguing with his captors for four days about exactly what he
would sign.
Hall told the NBC ``Today'' program that he had ultimately agreed to
she statement out of ``fear.'' When asked if he had any regrets, Hall
said he did, ``because as a service member that's what we're basically
trained to try to avoid doing.''
A senior military official said that while Hall was under ``no physical
duress to sign the statement,'' the 28-year-old pilot was under some
``mental duress, as would be natural.''
To win Hall's freedom and defuse the crisis, U.S. officials ended up
repeating similar language.
Gen. Gary E. Luck, the commander of 37,000 U.S. troops in South Korea,
sent a letter to North Korea expressing ``regret'' for violating its
airspace and citing ``navigational error.'' The State Department voiced
similar regret.
After returning to a hero's welcome that included a congratulatory call
from President Clinton, Hall is not likely to face any disciplinary
action for the mishap, Pentagon officials said.
Nonetheless, questions remain about Hall's navigational competency, why
he was permitted to fly so near the demilitarized zone that divides the
Korean Peninsula with only 10 hours' flying time near the zone, and why
the OH-58 helicopter was not equipped with advanced navigational
equipment in such a sensitive flight area.
