It's a Norman Rockwell vision: Thanksgiving weekend, the family ritual
of gathering to take stock, give thanks and look to the future.
The Rev. William Harper, 36, an Episcopal priest on Bainbridge Island,
a ferry's commute from Seattle, has planned just such a weekend.
Well, sort of.
As soon as his Sunday service is over, Harper will gather his wife,
Carolyn, their 3-year-old son, Blake, and a duffle bag of Polartec
provisions. His Subaru's roof rack laden with snowboards, he will head
for the trails of Mount Baker, two hours away, to ``bust some fatties''
-- execute some high jumps. As he carves plumes of powder, ``I'll
probably thank the Lord for snow -- and lots of it,'' he said.
Last spring, on Hunter Mountain, in New York state, Harper, 35,
switched from Alpine skiing to snowboarding. If the forecast of experts
is correct, his conversion will not be unique.
This winter, snowboarding will move from the renegade perimeter of
winter sports to its mainstream. Mary Jo Tarallo of Ski Industries
America in McLean, Va., a trade group, said that with close to 2
million riders during 1993, compared with 10.7 million skiers,
``snowboarding is the fastest growing winter sport.''
Snowboards -- are also proving to be one of design's new frontiers.
Architects, graphic and fashion designers, the television and recording
industries are all finding fresh inspiration in a sport that has
origins in the music of Seattle garage bands and hiphop street style.
Creatively speaking, board design is music video's closest cousin.
Today's laminated fiberglass snowboards are latter-day versions of the
psychedelic posters of the '60s -- cultural billboards whose
appropriated images paint a picture of rider values.
``Our roots are in an aggressive extension of skateboarding,'' said
Greg Dileo, 28, the marketing director for Division 23, a Torrance,
Calif., snowboard company that was started in January 1993. But the
sport, he added, is ``totally image driven.''
Harper's snowboard looks at first to be solid matte black, a reference
to his clerical shirt. But a closer look shows that it's decorated tip
to tip with a tree of life, earth objects and creatures and a face like
Moses's.
The design is barely noticeable (``so as not to offend the skiers I
still spend time with,'' Harper says) and he says ``secretly covets'' a
more radical Division 23 design: the face of Christ on a series of
television screens.
Niels Bendsten of Vancouver, British Columbia, a designer with a chair
in the Museum of Modern Art's collection, is well placed to smell the
coffee when it comes to design trends. He runs a 9,000-square-foot home
furnishings retail store, called Inform, and supplies the chairs for
Starbucks Coffee outlets.
Two years ago, after introductory lessons at nearby Whistler Mountain,
he was hooked. At 48, he began producing his own line of snowboards,
called Option, which has grown from a few hundred snowboards in its
first year to 6,000 projected for this season. Last season, the company
earned $3 million.
Donald Cassell, 34, an architectural designer and strip-mall developer
in Venice, Calif., caught the same wave as Bendsten. He launched Hazmat
Snowboards in 1992, and watched volume grow from 940 boards to 4,320
last year.
There are many versions of the genesis of snowboarding. Some East Coast
devotees attribute it to Jake Burton, the founder of Burton Snowboards,
an industry leader based in Burlington, Vt. Aficionados in the Pacific
Northwest are likely to tell you about Seattle skateboarders looking
for ways to have fun on Mount Baker.
(STORY CAN END HERE -- OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
