UN, Iraq sign oil-for-food deal
The United Nations and Iraq on Monday signed an agreement enabling
Baghdad to resume oil exports for the first time in almost six years to
buy much-needed food and medicine for sanctions-hit Iraqis.
The 51-paragraph memorandum of understanding was signed by chief UN
negotiator Hans Corell and his Iraqi counterpart Abdel Amir Al-Anbari,
ending three-and-a-half months of arduous negotiations which maintained
suspense right to the last moment.
Oil prices, which dipped sharply following Monday's announcement,
stabilized during the day as traders said that prices had taken into
account a possible accord in the last few days.
Iraq's return to the oil market was expected to take between two and
four months, while implementation details mentioned in the MOU and its
two annexes are sorted out.
UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a key player in the
negotiations, said the agreement marked "a success for the Security
Council" which worked out the framework for the deal in resolution 986,
adopted in April last year.
Security Council president Qin Huasun, of China, said the Council hoped
the MOU signing would "alleviate the humanitarian sufferings of the
Iraqi people."
The US and British ambassadors here, who had successfully fought for
amendments in the agreement to prevent Iraq from "manipulating" the
resolution, hailed the deal but stressed that sanctions against Baghdad
would remain in force.
US ambassador Madeleine Albright told reporters that Monday's agreement
was a "great victory, first of all for the Iraqi people who have been
suffering so unjustly from (Iraqi leader) Saddam Hussein's distorted
priorities."
The Security Council adopted the resolution in April last year amid
mounting evidence that the Iraqi people, rather than Saddam's regime,
had been affected by the crippling oil and trade embargo imposed
following Iraq's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
The Food and Agriculture Organisation reported in December that more
than half a million Iraqi children may have died as a direct result of
the sanctions, which can only be lifted when Iraq complies with strict
UN disarmament requirements.
