Calming fears that inflation might be rising sharply, the Government
reported Tuesday that prices at the consumer level climbed in August by
the same 0.3 percent that they rose in June and July. While most
economists maintain that inflation is rising, the latest figures
brought none of the consternation of last Friday on word then that
prices received by the nation's producers jumped by 0.6 percent last
month, the most in nearly four years. The bond market edged up, pushing
interest rates a bit lower, in renewed conviction that the Federal
Reserve will forgo any further tightening of monetary policy this month
and wait at least until its November meeting. WASHINGTON (NYT) --
President Clinton Tuesday signed into law a $30 billion crime bill that
he said would help still violence on the streets. But experts suggested
in a detailed review of the law that it is unlikely to guarantee
individual safety to a country increasingly haunted by crime. The
law-enforcement package embraced by the administration emerged after a
year of political struggle in Congress that culminated in what many law
enforcement experts say is a highly symbolic attack on crime that
responds to rising fears of crime with a measure with promises more
cops, prison cells and crime prevention programs without assuring that
it will make anyone any safer. Over the six-year life of the bill, it
would help communities hire 100,000 new police officers, but spread
them so thin that critics doubt they will make an appreciable
difference. It bans 19 types of military assault weapons, but leaves
thousands of such firearms in circulation. It imposes a new federal
death penalty for 60 offenses that rarely occur. WASHINGTON (NYT) -- An
advisory committee at the National Institutes of Health unanimously
recommended approval Tuesday of a proposal to use gene therapy for the
first time to treat cardiovascular disease. The proposal is to add
genes near a clogged artery in the leg to get new blood vessels to grow
around the blockage. One researcher compared it to a bypass procedure
without the surgeon. The study marks the beginning of a new era in the
treatment of cardiovascular disease, said Dr. Judith Swain, a professor
of medicine and genetics and director of cardiovascular medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania. WASHINGTON (NYT) -- The ousted president of
United Way of America, one of the nation's leading charities, was
indicted Tuesday along with two of his executives on charges of
stealing more than $1 million from the organization and spending much
of it on personal luxuries. A federal grand jury in Alexandria, Va.,
handed up a 71-count indictment, including charges of fraud, conspiracy
and money-laundering, against William Aramony, president of the United
Way of America from 1970 to 1992; Stephen J. Paulachuk, a United Way
executive from 1971 to 1988 and Thomas J. Merlo, the charity's chief
financial officer from 1990 to 1992. The indictment said Aramony
devised elaborate schemes to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars
from United Way and spent the money on a fancy apartment on the Upper
East Side of Manhattan, foreign vacations, hotels, chauffeurs and other
luxuries. Aramony, who is 67 years old and whose base salary was
$390,000 a year, shared these luxuries with a woman in her 20s with
whom he was having an affair, the indictment said. WASHINGTON (NYT) --
The pilot who flew a small plane into the White House was heavily
intoxicated, according to an autopsy that the Secret Service said
Tuesday revealed a blood alcohol count three times over the limit for
driving. A day after the pilot, Frank Eugene Corder, killed himself by
flying without any resistance until he crashed just under the
president's bedroom, senior law enforcement officials began the task of
trying to figure out whether the Secret Service should have detected
the flight earlier. Investigators are also trying to determine whether
aviation officials who had noticed the plane earlier in its flight had
contacted the security officials. MIAMI (NYT) -- When the Cable News
Network broadcast jailhouse telephone calls placed by deposed
Panamanian dictator Manuel Antonio Noriega, it intentionally defied a
court order, prosecutors charged Tuesday at the start of a criminal
contempt case against the network. CNN broadcast excerpts of the tapes
in November 1990 after Federal Judge William M. Hoeveler ordered the
network not to air the recordings, which involved General Noriega's
lawyers and members of their staffs, former military subordinates, his
family and his mistress and her family. ``CNN knew of the court's
orders and CNN acted willfully in defiance of this court,'' said Robert
F. Dunlap, the independent prosecutor appointed to the case. When the
network broadcast the tapes, executives at CNN argued that the ruling
was an unconstitutional prior restraint of its First Amendment right to
disseminate the news. But higher courts, including the Supreme Court,
upheld Judge Hoeveler's ruling, saying it was his choice to balance the
free press rights of the news media against General Noriega's right to
a fair trial. WASHINGTON (NYT) -- The Environmental Protection Agency
Tuesday said it was prepared to take several steps to reduce the chance
that people will be exposed to the toxic chemical. In a news
conference, the environmental agency said it will propose in February
new rules for controlling dioxin and other air pollutants from medical
incinerators, which it has identified as a significant uncontrolled
source of dioxin. The agency said it proposed new regulations last week
to control dioxin coming from garbage incinerators, which it said was
another large source of the chemical. In two other actions, the agency
said that along with the Department of Agriculture and the Food and
Drug Administration, it was participating in a broad study of the
levels of dioxin found in beef, dairy, pork and poultry products, which
are the highest sources of exposure to the chemical to the vast
majority of Americans.
