Mother acquitted of daughter murders after 9 years' jail 
A German mother was acquitted Thursday of murdering her two daughters
after spending nine years in jail for a crime she had always denied.
Monika Boettcher allegedly killed Melanie, seven, and Karola, five, in
order to be free to pursue a love affair with a US soldier. She
contended her then-husband Reinhard Weimar was the guilty one.
A court in Giessen, central Germany, ruled that the original conviction
of Boettcher, 39, was unsafe. Presiding judge Wilfried Weller accorded
her "the benefit of the doubt".
The defendant collapsed in tears in the arms of her counsel as the
verdict was given, while the gallery burst into cheers and applause.
However the prosecution gave notice of appeal against the acquittal,
and the court decided not award her compensation for the time spent in
prison.
On August 4 1986, Monika Weimar, a nursing assistant then aged 28,
reported the two girls missing.
Three days later their bodies were found a few kilometres (miles) from
the couple's home at Phillipsthal in the central German Hesse region.
Melanie had been suffocated, Karola strangled.
She accused her husband of killing them and the prosecutor's office
sought Reinhard Weimar's arrest, but a court in Fulda refused to uphold
a charge against him.
Monika herself was arrested, charged, and subsequently convicted on
circumstantial evidence in January 1988 by the Fulda court, which
sentenced her to life imprisonment.
The judges held that she had admitted the children were an obstacle to
relations with her lover of the time, Kevin Pratt.
Appeals up to and including the federal Constitutional Court were in
vain. But from her jail cell in Frankfurt, she applied in November 1992
for a fresh trial on the basis of new, forensic evidence.
This was also opposed by the prosecutor's office, and rejected by the
regional court. But her mentally-ill husband, from whom she had
divorced, was meanwhile said by witnesses to have confessed to the
murders.
In December 1995 the Frankfurt appeal court quashed the original
conviction and ordered a re-trial on the basis of this possible new
evidence, and she was released.
Boettcher, who reassumed her maiden name after her divorce, reaffirmed
her innocence in the re-trial, telling the court last week if she had
killed her daughters she could not herself have gone on living.
The husband whom she accused of the murders has a history of mental
illness.
