TIRANA Italy will continue to provide Albania with economic and social
assistance to help stop the flow of refugees from entering Italy, said
visiting Italian Social and Family Affairs Minister Livia Turco on Monday.
(Italy-Albania-Refugee) - - - - BAGHDAD -- Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
chaired a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, the Iraqi News Agency INA
reported. This is first cabinet meeting Saddam chaired after the completion
of four-night-long U.S.-British bombardment against Iraq last
Saturday. (Iraq-Saddam) - - - - BAGHDAD -- A Iraqi military spokesman
announced on Tuesday that four formations of the "aggressors" planes
violated Iraqi air space at 09:15 a.m. (local time) Tuesday.  "The planes
approached the district of Chlaiba and Artawi near the Kuwaiti
demilitarized zone, then they fled to their bases," said the
spokesman. (Iraq-Air Violation) - - - - JERUSALEM -- One day after the
Israeli Knesset (Parliament) passed the first reading of a bill for early
elections, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Tuesday that the
public would back his peace policy with the Palestinians.  (Israel-PM-Early
Elections) - - - - LAGOS -- Some 70 rebels were killed Saturday in clashes
between the rebels and pro-government forces in Sierra Leone's eastern
diamond-rich region of Naibun, New Nigerian Tuesday quoted a security
source as saying. (SLeone-Clash) - - - - MOSCOW -- Russian Ambassador to
the United States Yuri Vorontsov, who was recalled for consultations in
protest against U.S. airstrikes on Iraq, will return to Washington
Wednesday, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said
Tuesday. (Russia-Ambassador-Return) - - - - CAIRO -- The first Palestinian
passenger plane landed Tuesday at Cairo international airport, marking the
launching of a regular flight between Gaza and the Egyptian
capital. (Egypt-Palestinians-Plane) - - - - COLOMBO -- Sri Lankan police
have arrested the leader of the Colombo intelligence wing of the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), an evening newspaper reported here
Tuesday. (Sri Lanka-Rebels-Arrest)
