Disasters Kill 13,000 People Yearly in Bangladesh 
Nearly 13,000 people are killed, 19,000 injured and more than 1 million
affected by natural disasters every year in Bangladesh, the national
news agency BSS reported Sunday.
The disaster risk, to which Bangladesh is exposed, is among the highest
in the world, BSS quoted the data compiled by the Disaster Management
and Relief Ministry after last year's worst flood as saying.
Of the combined disasters in the SAARC (South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation) and ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian
Nations) countries, Bangladesh witnessed 90 percent while other
countries lived through 10 percent of the disasters over the past 10
years, the data said.
In terms of the proportion of population affected by natural hazards,
the data said, Bangladesh had the highest death rate -- 3,910 per
million persons. More than 86 percent of the total deaths in cyclones
and 48 percent of total deaths in floods reportedly in Asia are in
Bangladesh, according to the data.
The Bay of Bengal is one of the most dangerous tropical cyclone basins
in the world, the data said, noting that seven of the 10 deadliest
cyclones in the current century hit Bangladesh over the past 40 years.
Natural disasters like tropical cyclones, floods and tidal surges
claimed approximately 153,000 lives in Bangladesh during the past 10
years, affected at least 50 million people and caused over 7 billion
U.S. dollars in property damage, it said.
Factors including high population density to rapid urbanization are
causing disasters when technological expansion is on increase in a
rapidly developing economic setup of Bangladesh.
"Once a disaster strikes, local and national authorities are forced to
increase the allocation of financial and human resources to respond to
emergencies," officials of the Disaster Management and Relief Ministry
said while discussing the issue during a recent workshop here.
The high costs of relief operations during such disasters were using up
the resources normally allocated for development, thus slowing down the
development process in the country, they stated.
In view of the increasing trend of natural disasters in Bangladesh, the
ministry has made a provision for establishing a Bangladesh center for
health emergency preparedness and research to safeguard life and
protect communities from disasters by reducing vulnerability and
disseminating solutions to major public health and nutrition problems
in a cost-efficient way.
The government, in view of its success in effectively managing the
century's worst floods last year, will take due steps to face such
calamities in the future, the BSS report said.
