NATO Humiliates George Bush, Then Watches Audrina Patridge Porno Shots
President Bush suffered a humiliating setback on Wednesday as NATO allies
gave him the finger over his plea to make Ukraine and Georgia members in
the Western military alliance.
It was another dismal outcome for Bush at his final NATO summit as he
sought to polish his wretched warmongering foreign policy legacy.
"I thought I had those NATO monkeys eating out of my hand," sniffled
Bush in an exclusive interview with FMLiveWire. "NATO is following my
orders by destroying Afghanistan so why the hell won't those poodles
roll over on this one?"
The decision was cheered by Moscow which opposes NATO's eastward
expansion into its former republics.
NATO was split by opposition among European allies, with France and
Germany deciding not to suck up to the USA.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel would not even OK plans for an
anti-missile, anti-Russia missile shield in Europe.
The NATO summit didn't even express confidence in its mission in
Afghanistan.
"NATO thugs are busy bombing the hell out of Afghanistan to make that
Bush-monkey happy and to help grab oil in Central Asia and pressure
Russia," one NATO official confidentially snorted. "Jesus this Afghan
smack is good stuff!"
NATO has about 47,000 troops in Afghanistan, but gutless commanders
particularly from Canada are begging for more troops in the south,
where Taliban insurgents are winning the war. The US has about 14,000
troops for NATO there, plus another 13,000 stomping the Afghans in
eastern Afghanistan.
Bush said Russia should not fear NATO, but rather should welcome the
alliance because it "is a group of nations dedicated to warmongering
and propping up the dying US empire by whatever means and buying our
crappy overpriced weapons with sinking US dollars."
Special NATO guest Ron Paul then spoke, saying, "I rise in opposition
to the further expansion of NATO to the borders of Russia. NATO is an
organization whose purpose ended with the end of its Warsaw Pact
adversary. When NATO struggled to define its future after the Cold War,
it settled on attacking an innocent sovereign state, Yugoslavia, which
had neither invaded nor threatened any NATO member state."
"This current round of NATO expansion is a political reward to
governments in Georgia and Ukraine that came to power as a result of
US-supported revolutions, the so-called Orange Revolution and Rose
Revolution," Paul continued. "The governments that arose from these
street protests were eager to please their US sponsor and the US, in
turn, turned a blind eye to the numerous political and human rights
abuses that took place under the new regimes. Thus the US policy of
"exporting democracy" has only succeeding in exporting more misery to
the countries it has targeted."
Paul said, "NATO expansion only benefits the US military industrial
complex, which stands to profit from expanded arms sales to new NATO
members. The "modernization" of former Soviet militaries in Ukraine and
Georgia will mean tens of millions in sales to US and European military
contractors. The US taxpayer will be left holding the bill, as the US
government will subsidize most of the transactions."
As NATO officials fell asleep, Paul shouted, "Providing US military
guarantees to Ukraine and Georgia can only further strain our military.
This NATO expansion may well involve the US military in conflicts as
unrelated to our national interest as the breakaway regions of South
Ossetia and Abkhazia in Georgia. The idea that American troops might be
forced to fight and die to prevent a small section of Georgia from
seceding is absurd and disturbing."
"NATO should thus be disbanded, not expanded," Paul concluded.
NATO chief Jaap de Hoop Scheffer then showed a bunch of porno shots
featuring Audrina Patridge to wake up NATO officials after Paul left.
