Cagliari Ends Leader Juve's Unbeaten Streak at Nine 
Roberto Muzzi scored one goal and set up two others as Cagliari ended
Italian league leader Juventus' nine-match unbeaten streak Sunday with
a 3-0 victory, its first win in seven games.
Cagliari's victory was the first at home over Juventus in 15 years and
the first since a 1-0 victory at home over Genoa on Nov. 20. It was
0-4-2 since the Genoa victory.
Juventus suffered only its second loss the season (11-3-2) and remained
atop the standings with 36 points
AC Parma (9-5-2) had a chance to move within a point of Juve with a
victory over visiting Napoli in the late match.
Three-time defending champion AC Milan (7-7-3) continued its steady
climb, moving into a virtual tie for fourth place with 28 points with a
2-0 victory over Fiorentina.
AS Roma also has 28 points, but has a better goal-differential than the
Devils, after a 1-1 draw with Cremonese.
Third-place Lazio of Rome (9-4-4) edged last-place Brescia 1-0 to pull
within five points of Juve.
In other games Sunday, Sampdoria of Genoa and Bari drew 1-1, Foggia
beat Reggiana 1-0, Padova defeated Internazionale of Milan 1-0, and
Torino and Genoa drew 0-0.
At Cagliari, Muzzi converted a penalty in the 65th minute and set up
the other two goals as Juve's pattern of trouble with lesser teams
continued.
The hosts (5-7-5) took advantage of opportunities to counterattack from
the outset, with Muzzi earning a penalty in the sixth minute when he
was dragged down by defender Ciro Ferrara. Brazilian-born striker Luis
Oliveira connected from the spot. Muzzi also served Panamanian Julio
Cesar Dely Valdes for the double in the 53rd minute.
Juventus has beaten the league's powerhouses, but the blemishes on its
record are courtesy of weaker clubs. Its other loss was to eighth-place
Foggia, and its draws were with relegation-zone squads Brescia and
Genoa and 11th-place Inter.
At Milan, the Red and Black kept league-leading scorer Gabriel
Batistuta of Argentina in check all game and took advantage of
Fiorentina defender Daniele Carnasciali's expulsion in first-half
injury time.
Milan pressed the attack in the second half and French midfielder
Marcel Desailly chipped in a rebound from 3 meters in the 78th minute
for his first goal of the season. Winger Paolo Di Canio, acquired from
Juventus in September, doubled five minutes later on a solo run,
netting his first goal with Milan.
After a 3-2-3 start, Milan has not lost in its last nine matches.
At Rome, defender Marco Lanna's first goal of the season salvaged the
draw for the hosts (7-7-3).
Forward Enrico Chiesa put Cremonese (5-2-10) ahead in the 39th minute,
catching backup goalkeeper Fabrizio Lorieri off his line with a
20-meter blast. Lorieri, making just his second appearance of the
season, played for suspended starter Giovanni Cervone.
At Brescia, Croat striker Alen Boksic continued his impressive return
from an injury that sidelined him for six weeks, netting the winner in
the 27th minute off a feed from Roberto Cravero. Boksic scored three
goals last week and Sunday's tally took his season total to seven.
Brescia, which had gone four games without a loss, fell to 1-6-10.
At Genoa, winger Attilio Lombardo, playing in his 135th consecutive
first-division game, scored the equalizer in the 78th minute for
Sampdoria (6-7-4). Lombardo has not missed a league game since the
1990-91 season.
Striker Sandro Tovalieri gave Bari (7-2-8) the lead on a free kick from
the edge of the penalty area in the seventh minute. Tovalieri's 11
goals are second in the league, behind Batistuta's 15.
Samp's English international David Platt, who has scored two of his
five goals this season on penalty kicks, saw his weak effort from the
spot saved by keeper Alberto Fontana in the 28th.
At Foggia, stopper Giovanni Bucaro's first career goal, in the 51st
minute, gave the hosts (6-6-5) the victory. Reggiana (3-3-11) failed to
gain a single standings point from its nine road games in the season's
first half, just the 10th time in league history that has happened.
At Padova, stopper Massimiliano Rosa tallied from 1 meter off a
86th-minute corner kick and the league's worst defense (36 goals
allowed) played well. Padova improved to 5-2-10, while Inter (5-6-6)
dropped two spots to 11th place.
At Turin, the hosts (5-5-6) recorded their fifth consecutive home
shutout in a lackluster match. Genoa is 4-5-8.
