Backpackers Busted after Magyar Marijuana Dupe
Four American backpackers are facing 40 years' hard labour in a
Hungarian jail after being taken in by an online spoof story.
The identities of the two men and two women, both believed to be in
their early 20s, have not yet been released by authorities in Budapest
but it has been confirmed that all were attempting to buy large
quantities of marijuana.
Sefton Delmer, from the US Embassy in the Hungarian capital, confirmed
that the backpackers were all from California and had flown to the
former Eastern bloc country in the belief that marijuana had been
legalized following a bumper crop yield on the Great Plain.
They had all read, and believed, a story that appeared on the top
satire site, thespoof.com, which claimed the drug was widely available
and selling for $20 a kilo click here.
"A little research on their part would have revealed that Hungary takes
a very hard line on drug misuse," said Mr Delmer. "Apparently this
Spoof story was widely circulated and just proves how dangerous
misinformation can be."
The unfortunate Americans checked in to the Radio Inn and immediately
travelled by underground into the city centre.
They entered a number of bars and pestered bewildered Magyars in their
search for the drug. Difficulties in the language led to the visitors
attempting to mime their request by displaying items from their smoking
kit.
Alarmed locals summoned the police and the four were duly arrested.
A subsequent search revealed that the four, between them, were armed
with 16 pipes, 12 small hookahs, eight bongs, six chillums and 240
packets of king size rolling papers. A rucksack was also found at the
Radio Inn containing a four-foot glass narghile (hubbly-bubbly) of
Tunisian origin.
A number of Grateful Dead CDs was also recovered, including 25 copies
of Workingman's Dead and, oddly, 276 copies of American Beauty.
Mr Delmer said the backpackers, after three days in jail, were now in a
state of shock. Being straight' for the first time since George W. Bush
was re-elected President, they all realised the error of their ways and
were most apologetic; all were totally unaware of where they were.
Hungary has very strict laws on soft drugs and attempting to score'
carries a maximum penalty of 10 years.
It is believed the Hungarian authorities may take a lenient view on the
unfortunate escapade in return for the writer of the original Spoof
article being extradited to face charges of bringing Magyar culture
into disrepute.
