US army chief of staff arrives in Bogota on new counter-insurgency mission
US Army Chief of Staff General Eric Shinseki arrived here Wednesday to
map out a bilateral anti-drug strategy, two days after US officials
unsealed an indictment of three guerrilla leaders on drug charges.
Shinseki met with President Andres Pastrana and leaders of the
Colombian armed forces at the presidential palace before traveling to
military bases, according to officials.
Earlier in the week, the United States promised increased military
hardware and intelligence for Colombia's war against groups of
insurgents, especially in the wake of an incitement accusing guerrilla
leaders of trafficking cocaine meant for US markets.
Colombian prosecutors promised to use US evidence and intelligence to
capture and extradite three guerrilla leaders and four others to the
United States.
Colombian armed forces commander Fernando Tapias and Army commander
Jorge Mora accompanied Shinseki to the Tolemaida military base some 300
kilometers (180 miles) west of Bogota, a training ground for elite
troops, as well as the Tres Esquinas base 900 kilometers (540 miles)
south of Bogota, where hundreds of US advisers have already trained
more than 2,000 Colombian soldiers in the anti-drug fight.
The latter is near coca-growing areas as well as the Switzerland-sized
enclave the Colombian government ceded to the 16,500-strong
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) during a three-year peace
process. When that process ended on February 20, soldiers who retook
the zone found two cocaine laboratories and 7.4 tonnes of cocaine.
Evidence of drug trafficking by Colombia's insurgents allowed officials
from US President George W. Bush's administration to direct military
aid to counter-insurgency efforts. It had previously been restricted by
Congress and by a previous presidential directive to the anti-narcotics
fight.
The United States has already earmarked 1.3 billion dollars largely for
use by the Colombian military. And Bush promised additional monies to
protect oil installations that are regularly attacked by the National
Liberation Army (ELN).
On Tuesday, Bush said that right-wing paramilitaries of the
10,000-strong United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC) will be part
of the anti-insurgency fight.
AUC, like the FARC and the ELN, is on the US list of terrorist
organizations.
