Bush evokes lessons of Enron collapse in radio address on pensions 
Alluding to lessons from energy giant Enron's recent collapse, US
President George W. Bush on Saturday called for private pension plan
reforms that would protect Americans' retirement savings.
Bush noted in his weekly radio address that "many workers have lost
their jobs and their retirement savings when their companies went
bankrupt.
"Employees who have worked hard and saved all their lives should not
have to risk losing everything if their company fails," the president
said. "So my administration is proposing important safeguards to our
pension laws to protect the retirement savings of workers."
In West Virginia on Friday, Bush introduced the pension reforms, aimed
at preventing Americans from losing their retirement savings, as
thousands of Enron employees did when the firm filed for bankruptcy in
December.
Enron admitted in November that it had overstated earnings by nearly
600 million dollars since 1997. It also overstated its equity base by
1.2 billion dollars.
The firm is now the subject of several investigations.
Bush's plan, to be sent to Congress, will encourage employers to
diversify the portfolios of pension plans offered to employees and
provide investment counseling for workers. It will also require
executives to submit to the same restrictions on fund management as
their employees.
"We need to make sure that companies have a single standard for their
executives and their employees," Bush said Saturday. "It is unfair for
workers to be denied the ability to sell stock when executives are free
to sell their stock."
Former Enron chief Kenneth Lay and several other company executives
raked in millions of dollars after selling their Enron stock when the
firm encountered financial trouble, while their employees' savings
remained locked in the retirement plan consisting mostly of Enron
stock, which became nearly worthless after the bankruptcy.
Bush added that employers should be required to provide "regular
information" -- every three months -- to employees concerning "the
current value of their accounts and their right to sell and diversify."
