Progress and Problems: World Women Fighting for Equality -- Part One 
Women's status has steadily improved since women's movement started
more than 200 years ago, but women still have a long way to go to
become totally equal with men.
Women, who account for almost 51 percent of the 5.7-billion world
population, is an indispensable social force. But for thousands of
years, they have been unfairly kept at the bottom of society.
However, the past 200 plus years, especially the 50 years after World
War II, saw women's movement starting to take root in the hearts of
world people.
Women seeking emancipation and equality has become an irreversible
trend. More and more women are joining hands in the common fight for
their equality, surmounting their state and nationality boundaries.
After the 1985 Third U.N. World Conference on Women held in Nairobi,
government apparatuses special for women's issues have been established
in at least 130 countries, and over 20,000 non-governmental women's
organizations have appeared all over the world.
In the United Nations, besides the original Commission of the Status of
Women, three other important women's organizations -- the International
Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, the U.N.
Development Fund for Women and the Committee on the Elimination of
Discrimination Against Women, were set up during the past 20 years.
The surging women's movement has also propelled many countries to
protect women's rights by legislation. That women should be equal with
men has been enshrined in many countries' constitutions.
Today, a century after New Zealand women first won the franchise in
1893, almost the entire women's population enjoys the right to elect
and to be elected, which was once men's exclusive privileges.
The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women approved by the U.N. in 1975, seen as a breakthrough in
women's struggle for equal rights, has been ratified by over 100
countries.
Some countries have even taken special measures to protect their
women's population. For instance, Brazil has a female-staffed police
station, whose duty is to protect women from family and social
violence.
In the political field, the proportion of women involved in political
affairs has greatly enlarged in many countries.
At the end of June, 1994, there were 4,144 women law-makers dispersed
in some 140 countries' parliaments. In the five Nordic countries of
Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden, the proportion of women
legislators exceeds 30 percent.
In China, women deputies accounted for 21.3 percent of the total in the
National People's Congress, China's top legislature, ranking the tenth
in the world.
As for women leaders, apart from the hereditary monarchy, a total of 30
women have been elected as presidents or prime ministers in some 23
countries, among whom 10 are still in charge.
To enhance women's economic status is the key to realizing a true
gender equality. Women are playing an increasingly important role in
the development of world economy in the recent 20 years.
Statistics of the World Bank showed that women employees in world
agriculture, industry and service trades accounted for 40, 25 and 33
percent respectively. At least 50 percent of the world grain yield were
produced by women, particularly in developing countries.
The prejudice that "women are weak" has been challenged by achievements
made by women in such areas as diplomacy, military, aviation and
spaceflight. Women diplomats, judges, pilots and astronauts and the
like have kept emerging.
The International Court, the world's most authoritative, employed its
first woman judge this year. And since Valentina V. Tereshkova from the
former Soviet Union became the first woman in space in June 1963,
nearly 30 women have traveled in outer space. To date, 26 women
worldwide have won the Nobel Prize for their outstanding contributions
to mankind.
Women's cultural level has been raised gradually. In 1990, the rate of
women illiterates dropped to 33.6 percent from 46.5 percent in 1970. In
the 1980s, 45 percent of girl graduates from primary and middle schools
continued their education, one percent up from that at the end of the
1970s.
