Deadly boat accident prompts calls for greater safety 
The French embassy here has asked Cambodian authorities to investigate
the safety of tour boats on the Mekong and Tonle Sap rivers following a
boat accident that led to the deaths of four French tourists, an
official said.
The request came as Phnom Penh authorities confirmed that the pilots of
the ill-fated "Moyura" tour boat were the seven- and 12-year-old
grandsons of the owner and as Ministry of Tourism officials said the
Phnom Penh-based travel agency handling the tour was not licensed by
the government.
The two boys, their mother and grandmother who were also on board are
now missing, but presumed to be alive, authorities said.
French pensioners Pierre and Odette Brassier, Remy Giraudon and
Gabrielle Fourvel, all in their late 60s from the central French
industrial city of Clermont-Ferrand, drowned Monday evening when their
boat capsized on the Mekong river just south of Phnom Penh.
The owner of the boat, formerly called the Chhuk Meas (Golden Lotus),
was identified as an ethnic Vietnamese named Sok Chea who had not yet
returned from visiting relatives in Vietnam for the Lunar New Year.
Eighteen French tourists, many of them retired civil servants, survived
the accident which occurred during a sunset tour of the Mekong when the
Moyura, chartered by the Phnom Penh-based Rattana Tours Co., made a
sharp turn, collapsed, capsized and sank.
A senior Tourism Ministry employee told AFP that Rattana Tours was
"definitely not" licensed by the government at the time of the
accident.
It was unclear Tuesday whether the company had ever held a license,
which requires a 500-dollar application fee.
Officers with the Mekong River Traffic Control police said the
tourists, who had been sitting on the boat's covered roof to get a
better view of the sunset, had apparently moved to one side of the boat
to photograph children swimming in the river, when the boat turned,
causing it to capsize.
They said the boat was unstable and that the owner had attached bamboo
runners to the sides of the boat so it would keep its balance. The
runners apparently broke off, causing the accident, they said.
Many of the boats that carry tourists on short cruises through the
confluence of the rivers are old and in poor repair, but Monday's
accident is believed to be the first in which lives were lost.
"If anything good comes of this, it may be better safety on these
boats," said French ambassador Gildas Le Lidec, who offered comfort and
refreshments to the survivors Monday night.
"We have asked the police to make inquiries and see if we can bring
about adequate safety measures," he said. "We certainly don't want this
to happen to anyone else."
Meanwhile, the surviving members of the tour group, who with the
victims had arrived in Cambodia from Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam just
hours before the accident, continued their tour, travelling to the
12th-century temple complex of Angkor Wat in the northern province of
Siem Reap.
"I advised them to continue," Le Lidec said. "They were still in a bit
of a shock, but I thought it would be better for them to go than to
stay in Phnom Penh and look at the river."
The bodies of the dead tourists were being kept at Wat Ounalom near the
river in Phnom Penh, pending arrangements for their return to France
being made by the French embassy and the Mondial Assistance insurance
company, embassy officials said.
The group's 15-day budget tour of Indochina had been arranged by the
France-based Consul Voyages company, they said.
