`Influence' 
Author Steve Martini has great timing.
He also is a good writer.
Put those two qualities together and you have a best seller.
It's not quite as easy as that, but the latest legal thriller from an
author who is turning out to be a true master of the genre seems to do
everything right.
``Undue Influence,'' the third best seller for the former trial
attorney, had the luck of getting published only weeks after the O.J.
Simpson murder scandal really hit it big. And there are eerie
similarities between the novel and the real-life case. There's a bitter
divorce, a high-profile ex-husband and lots of press. Gender's reversed
in the book, however -- the woman is the suspect in Martini's novel.
Such timing is a marketer's and publisher's dream. But leave it at
that. ``Undue Influence'' is a best seller mainly because it's a great
read.
All the elements are there for a good murder-mystery. You've got a
vulnerable but very likable hero. Paul Madriani, the defense attorney
readers got to know in Martini's earlier ``Compelling Evidence'' and
``Prime Witness,'' is smart but also a good-hearted bumbler in an
ever-so-slight way.
He's so good-hearted that he promises his wife on her deathbed that he
would look after her younger sister, Laurel.
Laurel's divorced from a jerk of a state legislator and they're locked
in a bitter child-custody battle. Obviously, Laurel dislikes her
ex-husband Jack's new wife, Melanie. There's even a bitter
confrontation between the two women that is witnessed by many.
Melanie is murdered and Laurel becomes the prime suspect and is
arrested. And to honor his late wife's wishes, Madriani becomes
Laurel's defense lawyer.
In this 462-page but fast-paced book, the reader also finds a tough
prosecutor and a sleazy cop. There's Madriani's beautiful and smart
love interest who helps him with the case and there's Madriani's
rough-around-the-edges helper Harry, who you can't help but love. There
are vulnerable children and enough danger and peril to go around for
just about everybody.
True, it all sounds like formula and cliche when you list the elements
of ``Undue Influence.'' It's all been done before, of course. But a lot
of times the elements don't fit together as well as they do in this
book. Too much or too little of any of these can spoil things and it
all ends up like a trillion other novels.
But Martini appears to write with such ease that fitting things
together seems natural. There are no loose ends or confusing turns in
this book. When it's all over and you sit back and think about what
just transpired, you can't really find anything that could have been
done differently.
Perhaps Martini is successful because of his legal background. He knows
what's preposterous and what isn't. One gets a very safe feeling when
reading Martini's work because you feel confident that he's developed a
very rational thriller. And this doesn't necessarily take a law degree,
it just takes some thought that too many hack writers aren't inclined
to bother with.
Martini gets into the mystery quickly. And once the twists and turns
start, they really don't stop. There are a lot of people coming and
going in this book, but characterizations are tightly drawn. No one
gets lost in the shuffle and everyone is part of the building-block
plot.
The courtroom drama is the centerpiece of the novel, but the author
doesn't dwell on these scenes. The action and character development
that leads up to all this is crucial to the success of Martini's work.
That's what makes this book different than other legal thrillers.
Martini doesn't pass things off as more than they are. There's nothing
deep in this novel. It's just a superbly crafted and very enjoyable
book that's fun to read.
