Sri Lanka holds fresh talks amid truce setback 
The Sri Lankan government held fresh peace talks with the Tamil Tiger
rebels on Monday -- with the help of an Anglican bishop -- despite the
weekend killings of two soldiers which shattered a fragile truce.
A team led by President Chandrika Kumaratunga's secretary, Kusumsiri
Balapatabendi, included a clergyman for negotiations with the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).
Bishop Kenneth Fernando became the first religious leader in this
majority Buddhist country to be directly included in the search for a
settlement to Sri Lanka's protracted ethnic conflict.
The team held a six-hour meeting in the LTTE-controlled northern Jaffna
town, official sources said. However, the outcome of the meet, the
first in nearly three months punctuated by a bitter war of words, was
not immediately known.
The meeting went ahead despite Saturday's killing of two soldiers and
came just nine days before a deadline set by the guerrillas for the
government to meet their economic demands.
The Tigers pushed back their original March 28 deadline after President
Kumaratunga announced that she was willing to consider lifting the ban
on diesel and gasoline imposed on LTTE-held territory.
Earlier, defence officials said they expected the government delegation
to take up with the LTTE the killing of the two soldiers outside the
sprawling Palaly military complex located inside the Jaffna peninsula.
The LTTE has denied responsibility for the killing which marked the
first army casualties since the truce went into effect on January 8,
shortly before Pope John Paul II visited Sri Lanka.
Bishop Fernando and two academics in the official delegation -- Charles
Abeysekara and Jayadeva Uyangoda -- had travelled to Jaffna in recent
weeks for unofficial talks with the Tigers as part of a private peace
initiative.
More than 30,000 people have died in bitter fighting since the LTTE
launched a separatist campaign in 1972 for the two million Tamil
minority concentrated in northern and eastern regions in this majority
Sinhalese republic.
Since Saturday's killing of the two soldiers, government forces in
LTTE-dominated northern and eastern regions have been placed on red
alert with sentries issued shoot-to-kill orders to prevent infiltration
of their defences.
The military said they noticed a build up of Tiger cadres outside
several army camps in the past few days. "They may be trying to draw
fire from the soldiers to show that we are breaking the truce," an army
field commander said.
