Kenyan community row threatens 8.3 million dollar monkey project 
A row between the Kenyan government and a community in a remote
district over ancestral land threatens an 8.3 million dollar rare
monkey conservation project funded by the World Bank, elders said
Tuesday.
The project, which has been marked by controversy from the start,
stalled in December last year when the World Bank pulled out under
unclear circumstances.
The Pokomo community wants to be returned to their former ancestral
lands, which were seized by the government in 1994 to start the
Mangabey Monkey Project.
The endangered Mangabey monkey has a natural habitat in the semi-arid
Tana River area, 120 kilometres (75 miles) from the Indian Ocean coast.
Experts believe that the crested Tana River Mangabey (cercobebus
galeritus) is the most endangered of the Mangabey species.
The Convention on International Trade on Endangered Species (CITES)
body covering world fauna says there are only 1,200 members of the
species left in their narrow habitat of 60 kilometres (40 miles) of the
Tana River.
"They are threatened by deforestation, dam and irrigation projects,"
CITES says.
The farming community, through a council of elders, says they now want
to reclaim and utilise their ancestral land.
"We feel that because there has been no word from the government on the
status of the project, we should reclaim our previous position," elder
Omara Abae Kalasingha told AFP by telephone on Tuesday.
"The project arouses the conflict between humans and wildlife but we
are intent to let the government realise that we can put our land to
better use," Kalasingha said.
Both the World Bank's Kenya country office and the Kenyan government
have remained tight lipped on the issue.
The government, through the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), was to
implement the conservation project, while the bank was to provide 650
million Kenyan shillings (8.3 million dollars) to run it.
The community's stance might complicate the project further, although a
senior KWS official intimated that talks ere on with donors to revive
it.
"The stalling of the project does not, however, signify that it has
been abandoned by either of us. We are talking together to solve the
stalemate behind this crisis", the official said.
