Two policemen die, Kashmiris protest on Indian Republic Day
Bomb blasts across the country and protests in the troubled state of
Kashmir marred grand celebrations Friday to mark the anniversary of
India's birth as a republic.
Tens of thousands of people thronged a boulevard here to view a
colourful parade showcasing India's weaponry, attended under
unprecedented security by Indian leaders and Brazilian President
Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who was the chief guest.
The highlight of the two-hour show was the 56-tonne Arjun, India's main
battle tank unveiled this month, and the country's surface-to-surface
"Prithvi" missile which the United States does not want deployed.
Millions across India watched the display on television.
But the festivities, marking the declaration of the world's largest
democracy as a republic in 1950, were marred by powerful bomb
explosions in some of the country's troubled spots.
Two officers of the paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force were
killed and another seriously injured when a bomb went off near the
far-eastern city of Imphal, domestic news agencies said.
No one claimed responsibility, but police blamed insurgent groups
fighting to secede the small state of Manipur bordering Burma. The
groups had called for a boycott of the Republic Day functions.
Three other bombs exploded at different places in Imphal, but no one
was injured. Three bombs were defused. Very few people turned out to
see the Indian flag's unfurling at a police complex, the Press Trust of
India (PTI) said.
A bomb also stalled the official function at Jaipur, 250 kilometers
(156 miles) southwest of here, PTI said. No one was injured and none
claimed responsibility.
In Kashmir, a powerful bomb blast destroyed a government house in the
northern town of Kupwara and disrupted ceremonies there, while a mass
boycott by Moslems was carried out across the strife-torn valley.
An official was unfurling the Indian flag at Kupwara, 100 kilometers
(62 miles) north of Kashmir's summer capital Srinagar, when the blast
occurred. The official was immediately whisked away.
Moslems stayed indoors throughout the Kashmir Valley, where a bloody
separatist drive has left more than 12,000 people dead, in response to
calls by guerrillas to observe a "black day," police and residents
said.
Streets throughout the valley, patrolled by troops, were deserted.
Soldiers also defused a missile close to a sports stadium in Srinagar,
hours before an official unfurled the Indian tricolour.
Shabir Shah, a leader of Kashmir's independence campaign, said the mass
boycott of the official function revealed that Moslems desired an end
to Indian rule over the Himalayan province.
Elsewhere, constable Vijay Pal Singh Yadav died when he fell from the
top of the 28-foot-high (8.4-metre) police station while trying to
hoist the national flag near the northern town of Meerut, some 80
kilometres (50 miles) from here, officials said.
In New Delhi, thousands of police and paramilitary forces mounted
unprecedented security around the Rajpath boulevard during the military
parade to foil possible attacks by Kashmiri, Sikh or Sri Lankan
militants.
With one million soldiers, India has the world's fourth largest army,
and President Shankar Dayal Sharma was saluted by hundreds of them
during the parade here. Locals applauded the mass display of weaponry.
