Palestinian Minister Labels Netanyahu-Mubarak Failure
A senior Palestinian official labeled today the summit between Israeli
Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak
at Egyptian Red Sea resort Sharm el-Sheikh as a failure.
Palestinian Culture and Information Minister Yasser Abed Rabbo called
the summit an attempt by Netanyahu to try to appear that he is not
diplomatically isolated despite the deadlock in the Israeli-Palestinian
peace process.
Netanyahu and Mubarak held three-hour talks on exploring ways of
bridging the wide gap between the Israeli and Palestinian sides.
No apparent breakthrough was achieved on reviving the
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks which have been stalled since Israel
began building the Har Homa settlement in southeastern Jerusalem in
late March.
Netanyahu insisted the meeting was not a failure, calling it a positive
beginning that would be followed by more steps toward restarting the
peace process.
He refused to comment on Israeli press reports that he might consider a
temporary halt to the Har Homa project in order to start the crucial
final-status talks with the Palestinian National Authority (PNA).
PNA President Yasser Arafat is to travel to Cairo Wednesday to be
briefed by Mubarak on the details of today's summit. During the meeting
with Netanyahu, Mubarak already made a telephone call to Arafat.
Back in Israel, opposition Meretz Party leader Yossi Sarid criticized
Netanyahu for causing the failure of the summit. He said that as long
as Netanyahu refused to freeze the settlement activities, the deadlock
in the peace process would continue along with the danger of war.
The party decided to table a no-confidence motion against Netanyahu at
the Knesset (Parliament) over the failure of the summit to get the
peace process back on track.
Leading opposition leader Shimon Peres of the Labor party said the
summit should not be seen as a breakthrough, but only an attempt to
save the peace process from sinking. He noted that Netanyahu did not
have the mandate from his hardline coalition partners to make any
concessions.
Meanwhile, coalition officials were happy about Netanyahu's refusal to
bow to the pressure to halt the settlement activities, especially the
Har Homa project.
Lawmaker Zvi Hendel from the rightist National Religious Party offered
congratulations to Netanyahu on his resolute position at the summit. He
said Israel should not agree to resume the peace talks without
obtaining Arafat's promise to combat terrorism.
