1989: THE END OF THE 20
The fall of the Berlin Wall was a spectacular historical event. As Eric
Hobsbawm points out in his new book, The Age of Extremes, it
effectively brought the history of the 20th century to an abrupt and
premature end.
From the October Revolution in 1917, that history had been dominated by
the contest between capitalism and Communism; 1989 resolved that
conflict once and for all.
In the months that followed the air was filled with optimism and
triumphalism. The tone was set by the likes of Margaret Thatcher and
Ronald Reagan, who saw it as a vindication of their military and
political stance during the Eighties and confirmation of the robust
qualities of the Anglo-Saxon model of capitalism.
With the old enemy defeated, the West looked forward to a world that
would be remade in its own image.
In central Europe, these hopes have, for the most part, not been
disappointed.
In Germany, the task of absorbing a country of 18 million people with a
much lower standard of living was colossal and risked provoking painful
echoes of the past.
In fact, Germany has remained economically formidable and impressively
stable, with the far right confined to the margins of the political
stage.
To the east, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary have embraced
democracy and the market economy with some success, Slovakia, Bulgaria
and Romania with rather less. But the balance sheet is, on the whole,
more positive than might have been reasonably hoped in 1989.
Events in the former Yugoslavia, though, are proof of how things can go
wrong.
Everywhere Communism led to the suppression of good things and bad. In
1989, we paid little attention to the potential downside, in particular
the dangers of sectarianism and nationalism, which continue to wreak
bloody havoc in the Balkans.
The former Yugoslavia stands as a reminder that evil is not
conterminous with Communism.
The events of 1989 were, of course, about central Europe, not the
former Soviet Union. Yet somehow in the historical memory, the end of
Communism in that country is now lodged as a postscript.
The fortunes of the former states of the Soviet Union were always going
to be more precarious and unpredictable than those of central Europe.
Ethnic conflict is rife in the former empire and democracy at best
sporadic. At least it can be said that so far the worst has been
avoided.
Meanwhile, the effects of the end of the Cold War have been felt far
and wide. One of the most encouraging consequences has been the
settlement, or moves towards the settlement, of conflicts that
previously seemed intractable.
The end of the Cold War created a new atmosphere: if the oldest and
worst conflict could be resolved, then why not others? South Africa,
the Middle East and even Ireland fall into this category.
The most unexpected consequence of 1989 has been in the West. At the
time it was seen simply and unequivocally as a victory for the West and
a defeat for the East. It was interpreted as a triumphant endorsement
of Western values.
In fact, it has turned out very different. Since the events of 1989,
the West has been riven by doubt and uncertainty. Respect for
politicians has plummeted.
It is clear with hindsight that the Cold War not only froze politics in
the East but also the West. The classic example has been Italy, where
we have witnessed eastern Europe in reverse: a dominant-party state
that owed its survival to the Cold War and began to disintegrate almost
as soon as it was over.
For the first time in a postwar Western democracy, the political system
collapsed with ramifications that are still unclear. But Italy merely
provides the extreme example of a general tendency in Western
democracies.
The Cold War provided a compelling discipline for society. Rather like
real wars, it reinforced the authority of the political class,
constrained debate, defined national objectives, provided a simple
guide to right and wrong, and held in check deeper underlying pressures
for change.
In particular, the end of the Cold War suggests two things. First,
traditional Western-style democracy is now obsolescent, thrown on to
the defensive by the sheer dynamism and modernity of both civil society
and the market. Western polities and democracy must now be rethought.
Second, the Cold War helped to sustain the legitimacy and relevance of
a political system which, like itself, was based on the left/right
polarity.
By the same token, its end has reminded us that this polarity is
becoming less useful as a way of explaining the world and offering
solutions to its problems.
Finally, the Cold War served to obscure the meaning and significance of
the growing power of East Asia.
The Cold War was, by definition, Eurocentric. Its fault line divided
Europe, and its ideologies were made there.
Of course, the rise of East Asia, in the form of the Pacific Rim, had
been recognized in the Seventies, but it is only in the Nineties, with
the end of the Cold War, that it is beginning to take its rightful
place on the global stage, driven in part by the remarkable economic
growth of China.
1989 heralded the decline of Europe and a shift in the global center of
gravity towards the east, this time Asia rather than Eurasia. The
consequences of this have so far been little discussed, little felt,
but could turn out to be the most profound of all.
The Anglo-Saxon model may have looked like the winner when the Berlin
Wall tumbled, but it is no longer unchallenged as the model to emulate.
