(PARIS) GOLF Els pounces on Riviera to take early second-round lead
PACIFIC PALISADES, California: South African Ernie Els pounced on the
vulnerable Riviera Country Club course here on Friday, carding a
six-under par 65 to take a three-shot lead in the PGA Championship.
Els, the 1994 US Open champion and winner of the Byron Nelson Classic
on the US PGA Tour and a European Tour event in South Africa this year,
launched his assault with an eagle at the first hole, where he hit a
driver and four-iron to eight feet. "I had a great start with a three
on the first hole, that can always get you going," he said. Cejka
stills leads Austrian Open LITSCHAU, Austria: Alexander Cejka hit, by
his first day standards, a poor 68 but still led the Austrian Open by
four shots here on Friday. His second round 68 was added to an
incredible 61 on Thursday -- the lowest on the European Tour this year.
BOXING Bruno says he will pay McCall fine LONDON: Frank Bruno said on
Friday he was prepared to pay any fine imposed by the British Boxing
Board of Control on WBC heavyweight champion Oliver McCall. FOOTBALL
Rapid start for Aussie star LEICESTER, England: Australian
international winger Steve Corica will go straight into first division
Leicester's squad for Saturday's game at Sunderland after completing
his move from Sydney club Marconi on Friday. The clubs have still to
agree a fee. Marconi want 500,000 pounds (about 800,000 US dollars) for
the out-of-contract 22-year-old, but Leicester boss Mark McGhee is
confident of landing the Australian international for less than 200,000
pounds. Cantona rejects poetry chance MANCHESTER, England: Manchester
United star Eric Cantona is understood to have declined an offer to
take part in a poetry reading session at the Edinburgh Festival later
this month, the club said on Friday. Minister gets tough with hooligans
LONDON: Home secretary Michael Howard announced on Friday that the
government was looking at new ways of combating hooliganism ahead of
next summer's European championships in England. Howard said that the
violence perpetrated by a hord core of England fans in Dublin in
February served as a warning against complacency in the fight against
the thugs. more
