Japan Defends Rejection of Flu Vaccines for Quake Victims 
An American relief organization thought Japan would need flu vaccine
for earthquake victims and offered a million doses. But Japan says it
has plenty of vaccine to go around, so the aid is sitting unused in the
United States.
To some critics, the stalemate over the offer by AmeriCares of New
Canaan, Conn., is an illustration of Japanese red tape in the wake of
the devastating Jan. 17 quake that killed at least 5,273 people.
But to Japanese officials, the moral of the story is different: Japan
was offered aid it never asked for and doesn't need, they say, and now
it's being criticized for not accepting it.
It's not the first time foreign aid for the quake victims has touched
off controversy. Critics have complained that petty bureaucratic rules
were preventing foreign help from reaching victims; in one case,
foreign doctors were prevented from seeing patients for a day because
they didn't have Japanese medical licenses.
The United States offered to house evacuees on an aircraft carrier but
was turned down by the Japanese government, even though refugees later
took shelter on a Japanese passenger boat.
The vaccine case, however, could be different.
``At this point, we can provide for our needs with the vaccine we
have,'' said Miki Fujiwara of the health department in the hardest-hit
city of Kobe.
Officials in Kobe and the Health and Welfare Ministry said only people
over 65 are being encouraged to receive the vaccine. Younger people
don't need to be vaccinated because they're unlikely to become
seriously ill even if they catch the flu, said the ministry's Yoshinobu
Hirayama.
So far, flu hasn't become a serious epidemic, despite the chilly
conditions in many of the emergency shelters.
Some of the misunderstanding may stem from different views of how
vaccinations should be used. Japanese officials stress the possible
side effects, noting that people with colds may also develop a fever
after being vaccinated.
That's why only about 100 to 200 people are receiving the flu shots
each day in Kobe, Fujiwara said.
But Andrew Hannah, executive vice president of AmeriCares, said: ``You
want to immunize as many people as you possibly can'' to prevent
epidemics from spreading. He added, however, that ``you have to defer''
to Japan's judgment of what health measures are necessary.
Hannah said AmeriCares offered the flu vaccines to Japan because it had
a large supply available from a donor drug company that had surplus
vaccines in stock.
Since the vaccine takes several weeks to have an effect, no one knows
now who is right. Fujiwara contended a flu epidemic will be unlikely in
several weeks time because the weather will be warmer and many people
will have moved out of crowded refugee shelters.
But the complexity of the situation hasn't stopped critics of the
government from jumping in to attack. Officials of the main opposition
party in Parliament, the New Frontier Party, contacted foreign
journalists last week to present the vaccine case as an illustration of
incompetence by Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama's government.
``They are incapable of managing emergencies,'' said Yukinori Murayama,
an aide to opposition legislator Yuriko Koike.
