WASHINGTON U.S.  President Bill Clinton on Saturday called for legislations
to require a "cooling-off period" of several days before a prospective
handgun sale despite a new system has made background checking quicker. "We
must do even more to support the people and the laws that protect our
children and families," Clinton said in his weekly radio address. "We can't
go back to the days when dangerous criminals walked away from stores with
new guns, no questions asked," Clinton said. "This cooling-off period will
help prevent rash acts of violence and give authorities more time to stop
illegal gun purchasers," he added. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) is implementing an instant-check system that governing the purchase
of handguns, shotguns and rifles. The new system replaced a five-day
waiting period for handgun purchases only. The waiting period was to allow
local and state law enforcement authorities time to do background checks on
buyers. With the new system, gun dealers must call to relay information
about prospective gun buyers to the FBI for computer records checks, that
could be completed within minutes. (US-Gun-Checks) - - - - BONN -- The
European Union cannot issue a timetable for taking in European states until
late 1999, said German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer in an interview to
be published Sunday. "This must really then offer a concrete and not a
visionary (membership) date," Fischer said in a Welt am Sonntag newspaper
interview made available in advance. Fischer's remarks illustrate the deep
contrast between Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's new government and former
Chancellor Helmut Kohl who had predicted Poland could become a European
Union (E.U.) member in the year 2000. (EU-Enlargement) - - - - STOCKHOLM --
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat arrived in Stockholm on Saturday to start
a one-day visit to Sweden. He came to participate in the celebrations
marking the tenth anniversary of a secret diplomacy, which led to the 1993
Oslo peace accord between Israel and the Palestine. The Swedish Foreign
Ministry said that representatives of Israel, Egypt, Norway, Russia, the
United States and the European Union were also invited to take part in the
celebrations. A conference on the Middle East peace process will be in
Stockholm on Monday. Arafat is also scheduled to deliver a speech at the
Swedish parliament Saturday afternoon, offering his ideas on how to push
the Middle East peace process forward. (Norway-Arafat-Arrival)
