Japan's premier tells people not to panic over bank problems 
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi on Saturday urged the public not to
panic over an imminent end to unlimited government-guaranteed
repayments of deposits at collapsed banks.
"There won't be any problem if you keep your deposits at the existing
banks," he said in an interview with the Japan Broadcasting Corp. "We
won't allow any insecurity."
On Monday, the first day of the fiscal year 2002, the government will
impose a 10 million-yen (75,000-dollar) ceiling on deposit protection
per saver per a]fIkt at failing banks.
The government is to adopt the same limit on ordinary and
checking-account deposits a year later.
The move is feared to prompt mass withdrawals from banks weakened from
years of bad loans dating back to the "bubble economy" investment boom
which burst in the early 1990's.
According to the Bank of Japan, 25.9 trillion yen was withdrawn from
time deposits of over 10 million yen at banks last year.
US credit rating agency Standard and Poor's warned on Thursday that
because of the limit to government guarantees, depositors would take
more extensive credit protection measures, such as shortening deposit
maturities or shifting funds to stronger banks.
The premier on Wednesday vowed to use public funds "if necessary" to
help banks as Japan's tightest budget in four years was enacted amid
lingering fears of a financial meltdown.
Banks have been particularly hit by a downslide in Japanese share
prices in the past year which snowballed their unrealised losses.
But share prices have rallied in recent weeks after the government
imposed curbs on short-selling a month earlier and began to revise its
economic forecasts upward while corporations prepared to close their
annual accounts.
In the interview, Koizumi hinted that in the future he might scrap his
pledge to limit the issuance of new government bonds to 30 trillion yen
per year to help the government reduce its huge deficits.
He said the limit had been necessary "in order to maintain discipline
in state finances."
Asked if the restriction would be considered when working out a state
budget for the year starting in April 2003, the premier said: "We want
to think in a bold and flexible manner mindful of the situation."
"We will have to be aware that the economy is moving."
