Peacekeepers Threatened, Sarajevo Shelled
Bosnian Serbs on Friday shrugged off high-level international talks on
ways to stop their attacks on Muslim civilians, menacing one tottering
Muslim enclave and tightening the noose around another.
Though the United Nations said Zepa was fairly quiet, Bosnian radio
reported new attacks on the U.N. ``safe area,'' and U.N. officials
agreed to beef up mediating efforts there between desperate government
army defenders and besieging Serbs. The Bosnian army has no hopes of
holding on to Zepa but refuses to abandon it unless Serbs agree to let
defending soldiers join a planned exodus of civilians.
The Serbs held all men of fighting age who didn't escape after taking
Srebrenica, another enclave, July 11, and refugees' accounts of Serb
atrocities from there include mass killings of Muslim men they took.
``We think that anywhere from 5,000 and maybe as many as 10,000 of the
civilian population of Srebrenica has been murdered ... after the city
was surrendered,'' said Bosnian Foreign Minister Muhamed Sacirbey.
Talking to reporters in Athens, Greece, he claimed the Serbs killed
1,600 ``mostly boys and older men'' in one incident alone, in a soccer
stadium in Bratunac, near Srebrenica.
Though U.N. agencies have compiled hundreds of accounts of atrocities,
no independent substantiation has been possible.
Radio also reported shelling of Gorazde, another Muslim enclave further
south, which, though still relatively secure in government hands, is
facing the threat of mass hunger.
``Regardless of any imminent military threat to Gorazde, it is being
slowly starved and strangled,'' said U.N. aid spokesman Ron Redmond, in
Geneva.
Redmond, with UNHCR, the main refugee agency, spoke of ``desperate''
food shortages among the enclave's 50,000-60,000 people, saying only
one convoy had reached them since May 20. Medical supplies were also
extremely scarce, he said.
With Gorazde the next possible Serb target of conquest, Western leaders
were meeting in London with U.N. Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali to discuss ways of protecting it, the last secure Muslim
``safe area'' in eastern Bosnia.
As the world focused on how to save Gorazde, shells slammed into
Sarajevo, wounding 10 people, four of them children. And
anti-government forces increased attacks on another ``safe area'' _
this one in western Bosnia.
Tanjug, the Yugoslav news agency, reported major advances in the Bihac
pocket by renegade Muslims supported by rebel Serbs, saying they had
taken 50 square kilometers (20 square miles) in the last three days.
Bosnian radio said shelling in the Bihac region killed four young boys
and wounded more than 30 other civilians. Other unconfirmed reports
said thousands of refugees were fleeing.
The anti-government alliance of rebel Serbs and Muslims in northwestern
Bosnia seemed set to exploit the attention being paid to Gorazde to
grab Bihac. Defeat of the government army's Bihac contingent would
allow rebel Serbs in Bosnia and neighboring Croatia to link up in a
region with important rail and road ties.
Redmond, the UNHCR spokesman, also painted a dismal aid picture for
Bihac.
``Less than 11 percent of what is required for Bihac has been getting
through, and it's been like this since May of 1994, so it's already a
very desperate situation,'' he said.
The U.N. agreed to send a more senior official to Zepa to help the two
sides negotiate after local Bosnian army commanders had threatened to
kill Ukranian peacekeepers based there otherwise.
Even before the United Nations gave in, a deadline passed with none of
the Ukranians coming to harm, said Alexander Ivanko, a U.N. spokesman.
At the London meeting, the United States is proposing a large-scale air
assault if the Serbs attack the enclave of Gorazde. The talks are also
trying to find ways to open Sarajevo to aid shipments.
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic, in a telephone conversation late
Thursday with U.S. President Clinton, criticized ``the lack of U.S.
leadership'' in the war and appealed for ``firmer use of air strikes.''
On Friday, Bosnian radio reported him meeting with Turkish President
Suleyman Demirel in the central Bosnian town of Zenica.
Serbs attacked Zepa late Thursday after the Bosnian Serb commander,
Gen. Ratko Mladic, was rebuffed in a demand that authorities surrender
the entire mountainous enclave by 7 p.m. (1700 GMT) Thursday.
The local army refused because the Serbs planned to detain all men
between 18 and 55 and exchange them for Serb prisoners, said Maj.
Myriam Sochacki, a U.N. spokeswoman.
The United Nations sent in a small liaison team of low-ranking
officials Thursday to discuss safe passage for thousands of women,
children and elderly to central Bosnia, and the evacuation of about 35
wounded to Sarajevo.
Serbs drove 60 buses to the enclave to use in the evictions of the
Muslims. There had been an estimated 10,000 to 16,000 people in Zepa,
and Izetbegovic said 6,000 were ``in deadly danger.''
The United Nations earlier admitted it was powerless to guarantee safe
passage for women and children leaving Zepa, or to prevent mistreatment
of prisoners held by the Serbs. (pvs/sk/gj)
