Bosnia's Warring Sides Ignore Appeals For Truce Extension
Bosnia's warring sides battled on Saturday, ignoring last-minute
international appeals to extend a truce that expires in less than two
days.
In neighboring Croatia, five Croats and a Serb died in a spat that
illustrated the high tensions as the United Nations draws down its
presence there. The killings forced the closure of the Zagreb-Belgrade
highway, opened just last December for the first time since the
Serb-Croat war of 1991.
On Saturday, fighting increased across northern Bosnia, and the United
Nations confirmed an artillery attack on the northwestern
government-held enclave of Bihac.
Heavy firing and shelling erupted in and around Sarajevo, and the
Bosnian Serbs violated the Geneva convention with a phosphorous
projectile attack on the government-held northern town of Maglaj, said
U.N. spokesman Lt. Col. Gary Coward. A house and one occupant were
badly burned, he said.
Such projectiles are used by some armies to identify targets, but their
use against civilians is outlawed, he said.
``This attack once again proves just how much respect the Bosnian Serbs
have for the laws of the international community, from which the same
Bosnian Serbs seek recognition and legitimacy,'' said U.N. spokesman
Alexander Ivanko.
Bosnian Serbs fired six shells on the U.N.-protected ``safe area'' of
Bihac Friday evening and five on the nearby town of Cazin, said Maj.
Herve Gourmelon, another U.N. spokesman. There were no reports of
casualties.
On Friday, the United States joined the chorus of diplomats and
negotiators urging warring parties to extend the collapsing cease fire.
President Clinton's senior foreign policy advisers held a series of
meetings in Washington Friday to consider the Bosnian Serbs' tightening
of the Sarajevo siege and a French threat to withdraw its peacekeepers
-- the largest contingent in Bosnia.
France has said the peacekeepers will leave if a tattered four-month
cease-fire is not extended. Washington urged it to reconsider while
there is a chance of renewing the truce.
The five-nation Contact Group -- the United States, Russia, Britain,
France and Germany -- finished a meeting in Paris Friday with an appeal
to the Muslim-led government and the Serbs to extend the truce.
Both sides have said they won't.
The cease-fire expires Monday noon (1000 GMT). U.N. special envoy
Yasushi Akashi planned one last trip to Sarajevo and nearby Pale on
Sunday for meetings with the Bosnian government and Serb leaders, in
hopes of renewing the truce.
State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns expressed concern about the
Serbs' drive to seal off Sarajevo. He again urged the Serbs to permit
relief flights to land.
Relief flights have been halted for three weeks, after a U.N. cargo
plane was hit by gun-fire over Sarajevo's airport. Serbs have issued a
series of conditions before allowing the airlift to resume.
International aid organizations on Friday expressed mounting concern
about dwindling food stocks in the city and in other besieged
government-held enclaves throughout the country.
The spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in Sarajevo,
Kris Janowski, said the organization is trying to compensate aid
shortfalls due to the airlift's suspension with additional overland
convoys. But these meet only half of the city's food needs.
In recent days, Bosnian Serbs have stepped up attacks on civilian and
aid traffic using the only road linking the capital with the outside
world.
On Thursday a British aid worker, using the treacherous route, was
wounded by Serb fire. U.N. officials reported Saturday that explosions
and heavy machine gun fire continue to prevent vehicles from using the
lifeline.
``Sarajevans will not be able to take such a situation either
physically nor psychologically,'' claimed Sarajevo's daily newspaper
Oslobodjenje, on Saturday. It described Sarajevans as ``moving targets
on a diet.''
``It is obvious that they might seek radical solutions,'' it added
without further detail.
