Burundi government declares mourning for slain minister
Burundi's government on Monday declared a period of mourning for a
cabinet minister whose murder at the weekend raised fears of a new
ethnic bloodbath between the central African country's Hutus and
Tutsis.
Communications Minister Germain Nkeshimana said the mourning for Energy
and Mines Minister Ernest Kabushemeye, a member of the Hutu majority,
will last until Thursday, when he is due to be buried.
One of the attackers died in hospital of his wounds on Saturday after
being shot by one of the minister's bodyguards, and an injured
bodyguard also died on Sunday, national radio reported Monday.
Police on Sunday said they had arrested two suspects over the unclaimed
attack on Kabushemeye, who was shot dead Saturday as he was driving his
car in the centre of the capital Bujumbura. At least one passer-by was
hurt.
On Monday, no further information was released on the arrests, which
were confirmed by President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya, or on the
identities of the assailants.
The Burundian government is a coalition linking parties of the Tutsi
minority with moderate Hutu parties under an agreement reached last
year to stave off mass ethnic bloodshed in the traditionally unstable
highland nation.
In October 1993, more than 50,000 people died in massacres sparked by
the assassination in a failed military coup bid of the first Hutu
president, Melchior Ndadaye, elected in Burundi's first multiparty
elections that year.
Tutsis form the ethnic minority in Burundi, but dominate the armed
forces and have in the past bloodily put down Hutu risings.
Nkeshimana declared in a statement that during the mourning period,
radio and television would replace variety shows with broadcasts of
religious and classical music and flags would fly at half-mast, but he
asked the population to go about its business as usual.
The capital was calm overnight Sunday, but shooting and explosions had
been heard late Saturday in the working-class districts of Nyakabiga,
Bwiza, and Jabe, national radio reported.
However, businesses were closed in the central province of Muramvya,
however, after gunmen opened fire from a vehicle before fleeing. Nobody
was hurt, but tension was high, residents reached by telephone said.
Burundian radio said that political parties across the board condemned
the assassination of Kabushemeye, who headed Burundian People's Rally,
a small party allied to the president's mainly Hutu Front for Democracy
in Burundi (FRODEBU).
Last April, crisis struck when Ndadaye's successor Cyprien Ntaryamira
died with Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspicious plane
crash which sparked a bloodbath between Hutus and Tutsis in the
neighbouring country.
Ntibantunganya, a Hutu, was named to office late last year following
negotiations between the political parties, which agreed that the
situation in the country was too tense for a vote to take place.
The president, in Copenhagen for the UN summit on poverty, warned he
might have to break off his democratisation programme and take
"necessary measures to restore order" if ethnic violence continued in
the country.
He told AFP Kabushemeye's murder would provoke "insecurity and
destablisation" but said he did not believe the killing would spark
civil war.
The assassinated minister was the brother-in-law of the bishop of
Bujumbura "whose family was exterminated and who himself survived an
attack three weeks ago," said the president, who is also a Hutu.
Prime Minister Antoine Nduwayo held an emergency cabinet meeting on
Sunday and said an investigation had been ordered into the murder,
whose findings would be made public.
