Letters reveal secret Polish deal on Nazi gold 
The Swiss government has published two 1949 secret letters, revealing
that Poland struck a deal with Swiss officials to retrieve Jewish
assets deposited in Swiss banks and unclaimed before 1954.
In these letters, exchanged between Leon Kurowski, a senior treasury
offical, and Switzerland's Max Troendle, Poland also committed itself
to compensating Swiss banks and insurance companies for "expenses and
losses which could result from possible claims" of these assets.
The Swiss foreign ministry said these letters, released at the weekend,
were linked to another publicised agreement under which Poland would
compensate Switzerland for its Poland-based companies nationalised
under Communist law.
But Warsaw rejected the claims and denied it had secretly agreed to
hand the assets of Jewish Poles over to Switzerland to compensate for
its company losses.
In an interview published Saturday by the Polish daily Gazeta Wyborcza,
Kurowski also denied that Warsaw had authorised Switzerland to hold on
to the assets of Nazi victims, to compensate for Swiss losses.
"We did not pay with the money of Holocaust victims," he said.
Both sides agreed after long negotiations that the value of
nationalised Swiss assets in Poland amounted to 52.1 million Swiss
francs, and these losses were compensated by Poland with coal
deliveries, he added.
Kurowski also said he did not recall the letters exchanged with
Troendle.
According to the letters, dated from Warsaw June 25, 1949, Kurowski
made the following proposal:
"After a five-year delay beginning from the moment the above-mentioned
accord goes into effect, banks based in Switzerland will close the
accounts and liquidate the deposits of Polish nationals who had their
address in Poland on September 1, 1939 and have given no sign of life
since May 9, 1945."
"The sum of these accounts and the proceeds from the liquidation of
these accounts will be transferred to the Swiss National Bank and
written over to the National Bank of Poland."
Troendle replied, in a letter repeating Kurowski's suggestions: "I
confirm my agreement to all the above-mentioned."
Switzerland moved at the end of last month to set up a commission of
inquiry into looted gold deposited by the Nazis in Swiss banks during
World World II and on assets left behind by Holocaust victims.
The move came after official British documents revealed that
Switzerland had held 500 million dollars of Nazi gold at the end of
World War II and that nearly 90 percent of this, worth about four
billion dollars today, might still be in the country's banks.
