Hindu activists set off for controversial ceremony
Hardline Hindu leaders and more than 1,000 supporters began a procession
here Friday under tight police security to hold a symbolic ceremony near
the site of a razed mosque.
The procession was led by a white Ambassador car containing Hindu
spritual leader Ramchandra Paramhans and Ashok Singhal, head of the
militant Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP - World Hindu Council).
In front of the car were two cyclo-rickshaws carrying two stone pillars
for a temple the activists want to build to the Hindu warrior god Ram.
Some 2,000 Hindu activists lined up on both sides of the road, some
climbing on top of walls and roofs, chanting "Long live Ram."
But halfway through the procession some 700 to 800 of the Hindu
activists were stopped by police from going closer to the disputed
site.
The hardliners were shoved by police into a Hindu temple, where
Paramhans and Singhal got out of the car to join their supporters in
prayer.
Police said the two Hindu leaders would be allowed to carry on the
procession from the temple, but the burgeoning crowd would be blocked.
Officials also warned residents, many of whom had also gone onto the
narrow bylane, to stay inside and not encourage the Hindu activists to
press on.
Some 10,000 police and paramilitary personnel have been deployed in
Ayodhya to enforce a Supreme Court order banning the hardliners from
accessing the site of the demolished mosque.
In an apparent compromise, Hindu hardliners said they would hold their
ceremony away from the government-protected land around the disputed
site.
Singhal said one temple stone would be delivered to a high-ranking
police official and another to an envoy from Prime Minister Atal Behari
Vajpayee.
"It is pious work to construct the temple. It is very sad that we have
been rejected as fanatics. I think Hindus are most tolerant," Singhal
said as he set off.
"Thirty-thousand temples were destroyed by the Muslims, but Hindus have
never destroyed any mosque."
Asked about the razing of the Babri mosque here in 1992, which provoked
riots that left dead 2,000 people, Singhal said the building "was a
functional temple."
