Roundup: Security Tight for SAARC Summit Colombo, July 26 
Security is getting extremely tight with the 10th summit of the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) drawing near in
Colombo.
The authorities have taken maximum possible security measures for the
SAARC sessions to be held here from July 29 to 31, police officials
said.
Some 6,000 police personnel will be deployed in Colombo apart from the
security forces. In addition, 50 sniffer dogs will also be on "duty".
About 25 ships and gunboats have been stationed along the coast of
Colombo, a city with 600,000 population, to guard against any possible
rebel attack.
Colombo and the routes taken by the heads of state or government from
the seven SAARC member countries have been declared as high security
zone during this period.
"Be very strict about strangers, avoid entertaining or giving
employment to outsiders during the period of SAARC sessions," Colombo
police chief Jagath Jayawardena appealed to the public.
Jayawardena asked the residents in Colombo to be extra careful in the
interests of their own safety. Those who are unable to prove their
identities will be taken into custody.
He said residents should not allow vehicles of outsiders including
motorcycles, carts and ice cream vans to be parked in their compounds
or outside the houses.
Security personnel at roadblocks have been ordered to do a full search
of the vehicles and the passengers.
"The security is very tight, I don't think there will be any chance for
the Tamil rebels," said a senior police officer.
The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) has been fighting with Sri
Lanka government forces for an independent Tamil state since 1983.
About 55,000 people were killed in the civil war.
Three school students were injured recently as a policeman opened fire
at their van, which failed to stop for a check-up at a police check
post.
In October last year, a bomb explosion occurred at the World Trade
Center in Colombo, killing thirteen people, including seven Tamil
suicide fighters.
The upcoming SAARC summit will focus on regional economic cooperation,
terrorism and drug trafficking, officials said.
The heads of state or government of the member countries will arrive in
Colombo on July 28.
During the summit, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and his Indian
counterpart Atal Behari Vajpayee is scheduled to hold their first
face-to-face meeting since the two countries conducted nuclear tests in
May this year.
