FBI Affidavit Details Anatomy of a Bombing
The storage sheds were rented last fall in small Kansas towns. Two tons
of the type of fertilizer used in the federal building bombing were
bought about the same time. The diesel fuel was the finishing touch,
bought days before the blast that killed 167 people.
The anatomy of the federal building bombing was detailed in an FBI
affidavit unsealed Thursday at a hearing for Terry Nichols. He is
charged in the blast with his Army buddy Timothy McVeigh.
According to receipts found at Nichols' home in Herington, Kansas, a
storage shed was rented Sept. 22 in Herington in the name Shawn Rivers.
Eight days later, the receipts show that a Mike Havens bought a ton of
ammonium nitrate fertilizer at a farm supply store in McPherson,
Kansas, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) southwest of Herington.
McVeigh's fingerprint was found on the receipt, the affidavit says, and
investigators say such fertilizer was used in the 4,800-pound
(2,175-kilogram) bomb.
On Oct. 17, another storage unit, known as No. 40, was rented to a Joe
Kyle in Council Grove, about 24 miles (39 kilometers) from Herington,
the affidavit says. The next day, a Mike Havens again bought another
ton of ammonium nitrate from the same farm supply store.
On Nov. 7, a third storage unit, No. 37, was rented in Council Grove,
this time in the name Ted Parker.
A few weeks later, according to the affidavit, Nichols wrote a letter
to McVeigh in which he said he planned to go to the Philippines.
McVeigh was to receive the letter only in the event of Nichols' death.
In that case, he should ``clear everything out of CG 37'' and
``liquidate 40.''
Nichols also wrote that McVeigh would be on his own and should ``Go for
it!!''
The affidavit says ``CG 37'' refers to the Council Grove storage unit
No. 37 and that ``Liquidate 40'' refers to the storage unit No. 40,
both rented by Nichols.
Then, on April 15 and 16, Nichols purchased more than two dozen gallons
of diesel fuel from service stations in Manhattan and Junction City,
Kansas, the affidavit says.
The federal building was bombed the morning of April 19.
Nichols' appeared Thursday before U.S. Magistrate Ronald Howland in a
makeshift courtroom at the federal prison in El Reno, where McVeigh has
been held since being charged two days after the attack.
Nichols only spoke to answer the magistrate's questions, saying ``Yes,
your honor'' and ``Yes, sir.''
As the 10-page affidavit compiled by FBI Agent Henry Gibbons was
unsealed and the charges against Nichols were read, he sat slumped at
the defense table, shackled hand and foot. He stared straight ahead
when interim U.S. Attorney Patrick Ryan said Nichols faces the death
penalty if convicted.
According to the affidavit, Nichols waived his right to remain silent
after turning himself in. In the days after the bombing, he told the
FBI that he knows how to make a bomb by blending ammonium nitrate with
diesel fuel.
Nichols also gave agents permission to search his house. They found
detonator cord, blasting caps and several containers of ground ammonium
nitrate, which the affidavit said can be used to help boost a
fertilizer-fuel bomb.
He said he had picked McVeigh up in Oklahoma City on April 16 and
dropped him off in Junction City, the affidavit says. He said he met
McVeigh in Junction City on April 18 and loaned him his dark blue
pickup truck for about five hours.
The Ryder truck that carried the bomb was rented in Junction City on
April 17. The affidavit says a Ryder truck was seen behind Nichols'
house that day.
A senior federal official in Washington, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, told The Associated Press that Nichols admitted to the FBI
that he helped bring the Ryder truck to Oklahoma City.
