Suicide bomber kills himself and policeman in central China 
A man set off a homemade bomb hidden on his body, killing himself and a
policeman, local police and media said Saturday, in the latest of a
recent series of bombings in China.
The incident happened in the city of Zhongxiang, central China's Hubei
province Friday afternoon, according to the Jiang Huai Morning Post's
website.
The man exploded the bomb shortly after he was detained and put inside
a police car by two police officers dispatched to a gas station to
investigate a report of theft there, the report said.
The bomber died instantly.
One of the police officers, an 18-year-old cadet, was killed, a police
official told AFP. The other officer suffered injuries leading to
deafness and was still in hospital, a medical official said.
"We don't know the motive. We're still investigating the case," the
police official said.
The incident is the latest in a spate of bombings around the country
this month, which killed a total of nine people, including the police
officer and suicide bomber in Hubei.
On December 14, 23 bombs were set off in the southern Guangdong
province cities of Zhanjiang and Jiangmen, killing five people and
injuring seven.
Police have blamed the bombings on a man seeking revenge against his
former in-laws and people with whom he had financial disputes. He also
killed himself in the blasts.
On December 15, two people were killed and 27 others injured when a
bomb exploded at a McDonald's restaurant in the city of Xian, north
China's Shaanxi province. Police have not arrested the perpetrator or
revealed information on the motive.
On December 16, a bomb went off outside the home of a local official at
a collective farm near Guigang city in southwestern Guangxi province,
but no one was hurt, state media said.
China has said the recent bombings were "isolated" criminal acts and
insisted the nation's security situation was not deteriorating.
The explosions follow five simultaneous deadly blasts which happened in
the northern city of Shijiazhuang on March 16 this year, killing 108
people. The bombs were revenge attacks by a man targetting his
relatives and neighbors, police said. The man was later executed.
Observers have blamed the bombings seen this year on a crumbling social
structure coupled with easy access to explosives -- used widely in
construction work -- and a popular belief that China's legal system is
useless for addressing grievances.
