Real stay top as Coruna keep heat on
Real Madrid stayed out in front in the Spanish first division this weekend
after captain Fernando Hierro's header secured three points at Sporting
Gijon 1-0 on Saturday.
Hierro's 20th minute goal from a corner by Roberto Carlos was enough to
keep Real two points clear of the chasing pack with bitter rivals
Barcelona not playing until Monday.
Real now have 35 points from 15 games, one more than Deportivo La
Coruna and four points clear of Barcelona, whom they meet in next
week's clash of the giants in the Bernabeu stadium.
Before then, the Catalan giants must defeat bottom side Extremadura to
close the gap to just one point.
Deportivo La Coruna took advantage of Barca's blank weekend to go
second in the table after winning 1-0 Sunday in Seville. Former Coruna
star Bebeto, who joined Seville earlier this season after returning to
Spain from his native Brazil, failed to shine against his old
teammates.
Corentin Martins hit the only goal of the game four minutes into the
second half.
Afterwards, Seville coach Jose Antonio Camacho said he would offer the
club his resignation with the team having slid into the bottom four.
"I shall offer the club my resignation and see if they wish to bring in
another coach," Camacho told a press conference.
"I am not tired of football, but the team has been doing badly. There
is a collective failure here, but I consider myself primarily
responsible."
Champions Atletico Madrid, who are in sixth place and nine points off
the pace, kept in the frame by winning 1-0 at home to Racing Santander
-- Juan Eduardo Esnaider scoring the only goal of the match midway
through the first-half.
Elsewhere, Tenerife had a disastrous warm-up for their UEFA Cup visit
to Feyenoord as they lost 2-1 at home to Rayo Vallecano, for whom Angel
Alcazar hit a brace.
Valencia, who face Besiktas in the UEFA Cup defending a 3-1 lead,
defeated Celta Vigo 2-0 on Saturday to the delight of new coach Jorge
Valdano.
Betis meanwhile went fourth with a 2-0 victory at Santiago de
Compostela, Alfonso Perez and Nigerian Finidi George both on target.
