100th Anniversary of Movies Huge Salaries Still Demonstrate Star Power 
What makes a movie star?
Billy Wilder once remarked that the camera had a ``love affair'' with
stars like Greta Garbo, Marlene Dietrich and Marilyn Monroe, all of
whom he worked with.
The great English actress Ellen Terry defined star quality as ``that
little something extra,'' though she couldn't explain what that little
something extra was.
``A star is someone who attracts your attention even when he or she
isn't doing anything,'' suggests George Sidney, who directed dozens of
stars during MGM's golden years. ``Spencer Tracy could be standing
behind Clark Gable and just nodding, but you couldn't help but notice
him.
``Stars have a kind of inner magic that makes you want to look at them.
Michelle Pfeiffer is like that. So were Lana Turner, Ava Gardner, Rita
Hayworth. You can't take your eyes off them.''
Whatever creates stars, two things can be certain: 1. The movie
business can't exist without them. 2. Stardom can be very, very
lucrative.
To illustrate No. 2: Jim Carrey, a little-known comedian two years ago,
recently signed a dlrs 20 million contract for his fifth movie.
Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Bruce Willis and Tom Hanks
also can earn that kind of money.
The star system did not emerge immediately with the birth of movies a
century ago. In the beginning, the actors were anonymous, and they
remained so in the first decade of the 1900s. But the sudden popularity
of movies prompted the public to write letters to actors who intrigued
them _ the first fan mail.
In lieu of names, the letters were addressed to ``The Girl With the
Curls,'' ``The Waif,'' ``The Man With Sad Eyes,'' ``The Handsome
Indian,'' etc.
Along with inventing techniques that helped make motion pictures an art
form, D.W. Griffith contributed to the emergence of stars. Starting at
Biograph in 1908, the director collected a stock company of young
players such as Lillian and Dorothy Gish, Mary Pickford, Mae Marsh and
Florence Lawrence. None received billing.
In 1910, the aggressive Carl Laemmle plucked Florence Lawrence from
Biograph and introduced her to the public with a publicity stunt. A St.
Louis newspaper had reported that Miss Lawrence, known as ``the
Biograph Girl,'' had been killed in a streetcar accident.
Laemmle in a trade-paper ad denounced the report as a lie. He announced
that the actress would appear at the opening of her new film in St.
Louis. The event caused a riot.
Thus, Laemmle introduced the first publicity stunt, the first personal
appearance, and the star system.
The first superstar was Mary Pickford.
The winsome little girl with the long curls started at Biograph in 1909
for dlrs 40 a week. Seven years later, Adolph Zukor gave her dlrs
10,000 a week, plus a dlrs 350,000 bonus and her own company. In 1917,
she moved to First National at dlrs 350,000 per picture, and she made
seven films that year.
Charlie Chaplin became the other great star of silent films. Starting
in 1913 with Mack Sennett, his Little Tramp captured audiences
throughout the world. By 1918, he was being paid more than dlrs 1
million for eight two-reel comedies.
The formation of United Artists in 1919 hit the industry with the same
impact of 1995's Dream Works SKG. The biggest stars of silent films _
Pickford, Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks _ and the biggest director, D.W.
Griffith, joined to produce and distribute their own films.
United Artists marked the zenith of star power in silent films. The
1920s brought the consolidation of control in the hands of a few big
studios, which amassed theater chains to show their product. Stars
remained important, but most of them were tied to studio contracts.
___
``You ain't heard nothin' yet!''
Al Jolson's prophetic words in the 1927 ``The Jazz Singer'' signaled
the end of the silent era and the birth of a new generation of U.S.
stars. Most of the silent actors were swept away by a new breed from
Broadway and vaudeville _ fast-talking, vital, exuberant.
James Cagney, Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy, Jean Harlow, Edward G.
Robinson, Bette Davis, Ginger Rogers and others captured the tempo of
the 1930s. The major studios boasted large rosters of stars and
featured-players. Through most of the '30s and '40s, nearly every star
was under contract to studios. Only a few, such as Cary Grant, Irene
Dunne, Charles Boyer and Ronald Colman successfully free-lanced.
The year 1948 marked the beginning of the end of the big-studio era.
That was when television began to change the entertainment habits of
Americans. It was also the year when the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that
the major companies were guilty of monopolistic practices. The majors
were ordered to divest themselves of the theater chains that guaranteed
a market for their product.
Contract lists gradually were whittled down. Such longtime stars as
Clark Gable, Joan Crawford, Tyrone Power, Robert Taylor and Bette Davis
entered the free-lance market, and their careers eventually faded. They
were replaced by a new generation of actors: Montgomery Clift, Marlon
Brando, Marilyn Monroe, Paul Newman, Jane Fonda, Shirley MacLaine, etc.
As the number of stars dwindled, talent agencies ascended in power.
MCA's Lew Wasserman negotiated a landmark deal for Jimmy Stewart: The
star waived his big salary in exchange for 50 percent of the profits
from Universal Pictures. He earned millions. Cary Grant was able to
make contracts that gave him ownership of his films. MORE
