IBM Corp. plans a multimillion-dollar marketing blitz to push a
streamlined version of its OS/2 operating system for personal computers
in another hopeful attempt to lessen the dominance of Microsoft Corp.'s
Windows system.
The company is readying print and radio advertising as well as
television spots and possibly a TV infomercial, said Keith Lindenburg,
spokesman for IBM's Personal Software Products division. Details of the
campaign are still under wraps, but Lindburg promised, ``It's going to
be one of the more aggressive campaigns for a software rollout at
IBM.''
IBM is scheduled to release the updated and slimmed-down version of
OS/2 in October. Code-named Warp, the program is designed to run fast
on a personal computer with four megabytes of random access memory --
half of the current version -- and has a number of improvements and
features designed to make it easier to use.
Officials are hoping the new OS/2 will do what previous versions could
not -- provide a credible challenge to Microsoft's Windows program as
the operating system of choice. Windows has been installed on
approximately 50 million desktop computers, compared to about 5 million
for OS/2.
Microsoft next year is planning a major new release of Windows,
currently called Chicago, which, like Warp, is a 32-bit, multitasking
system designed to run on four megabytes of RAM.
IBM is hoping that as Microsoft attempts to convert computer users to
the new system, customers will be up for grabs.
The company also is counting on Microsoft's recent antitrust settlement
with the Justice Department to open up computer manufacturers to the
idea of installing more OS/2 at the factory instead of Microsoft's
Windows. In the settlement, Microsoft agreed to stop certain pricing
practices that federal officials thought precluded manufacturers from
installing operating systems that compete with Windows.
``We do see a window of opportunity,'' Lindenburg punned. He added that
IBM is talking with some of the top five computer manufacturers.
In a somewhat unusual move, IBM's marketing campaign will not be geared
to corporations. Warp's smaller memory requirements and ease-of-use
features should make it attractive to consumers, home businesses and
notebook computer users, so IBM plans to focus efforts there.
``The consumer end user is a marketplace that's booming right now,''
Lindenburg said. ``The research tells us that's really an area that we
can tap into.''
Analysts say the new operating system is technically sound. But they
question IBM's ability to out-market Microsoft, especially in light of
previous failed attempts to sell OS/2, such as with the company's
sponsorship of college football's Fiesta Bowl.
``I really think IBM has a good product,'' said Karl Wong, software
analyst for Dataquest Inc. ``But what they really need to do is go
beyond the idea that having a good product is all you need to do well.
Software is market-driven, and the winner is who has the better
marketing. Microsoft is one of the premier companies in terms of
marketing software.''
Although OS/2 will run older software applications designed for
Microsoft's DOS and Windows operating systems, the program will
continue to be plagued by a lack of applications written specifically
for OS/2, he said. Wong also questioned IBM's decision to target
consumers, a much smaller market than office users despite high growth
potential.
``I think it's foolish to put your main thrust behind only one market
segment,'' he said.
Richard Freedman, product manager in Microsoft's personal operating
systems group, said OS/2 ``is like limburger cheese. No matter how much
you advertise it, most people just don't want it. And the few people
who do buy it, they say it doesn't smell too good.''
Freedman added that software applications written to run on Chicago
won't work on the new version of OS/2.
IBM plans to include several application programs with Warp, including
word processor, spreadsheet, charting and graphics, a Compuserve
information manager, fax program and software for connecting to the
Internet. The package will cost less than $100, Lindenburg said.
Wong says IBM could make inroads if the already-delayed Chicago system
is even later to reach stores, or if the new system is buggy or won't
run well on four megabytes of memory.
But he added that even big miscues by Microsoft would gain IBM little,
``maybe 1 or 2 percent'' of the desktop operating system market, ``if
IBM can keep hammering it home and making incremental improvements'' to
OS/2.
