Oilers Complain Refs Favored Cowboys' Aikman 
Sure, the officials called it both ways Sunday afternoon at Texas
Stadium.
First, there was the way they called it for 89 of the players on the
field. And then there was the way they called it for Troy Aikman.
At least that's what many of the Oilers believed was the case at two
critical points of what would be a 20-17 loss to the Dallas Cowboys.
``Bleep the officials,'' Oilers receiver Ernest Givins said. ``Bleep
all of them. We always get the short end of the stick, so bleep them.''
Obviously, feelings ran deep.
The biggest gripe the Oilers had with Sunday's game officials revolved
around two calls, although there were several others that proved to be
huge.
The first critical call -- or non-call -- came in the final two minutes
of the third quarter. With good field position at their own 41-yard
line, the Oilers were racing the play clock and lost.
The game's back judge, Jim Poole, whistled the Oilers for a delay of
game penalty as the ball was snapped.
Cowboys defensive end Charles Haley apparently could not hear the
whistle and barreled into Richardson as most other players were
stopping play.
Several Oilers players and coaches walked a few steps onto the field
protesting that the Cowboys roughed Richardson, but referee Ed Hochuli
announced that since the back judge was the one who whistled, some
players did not hear that play was stopped.
No penalty.
``That was the worst non-roughing call I have ever seen in my career,''
said Oilers quarterback Cody Carlson, who was one of the players
arguing with Hochuli.
One play later, tailback Gary Brown bobbled a screen pass from
Richardson, Haley intercepted, and the Oilers were left scrambling as
the fourth quarter approached.
Then in the fourth quarter, the scramble became desperate when Hochuli
made a similar call involving Troy Aikman. It cost a surging Oilers
offense precious time off the clock.
With just over 2:30 remaining and the Oilers with no timeouts
remaining, Lamar Lathon stuffed Emmitt Smith on first down and Ray
Childress batted down a pass by Aikman.
Things were looking promising.
But on that pass attempt, Oilers linebacker Eddie Robinson swatted the
side of Aikman's helmet after Aikman released the ball.
Hochuli called roughing when Aikman was involved and by the time
Richardson got the ball back in his hands, just 22 seconds remained.
``I thought it was clear to everyone that I was trying to stop (before
hitting Aikman),'' Robinson said. ``That's why I had my arms up,
because I was trying to use them to slow myself down, but my hand hit
him on the side of the helmet.
``I thought it was obvious to everyone that I wasn't taking a shot at
him. I was just trying to stop.''
That's not the way Hochuli saw it and the Oilers said there was reason
for the differing interpretations.
``There's no doubt there was a difference in the way they called the
game for the two quarterbacks,'' Carlson said. ``To allow Haley to hit
Bucky like that is just total crud.''
Said Oilers kicker Al Del Greco, who also protested the two plays:
``Aikman barely gets hit and Bucky almost gets killed. But the reason
it was called the way it was is one man was Troy Aikman and the other
was Bucky Richardson.
``The game is clearly on the line at that point and you just don't make
a ridiculous call like that.''
