Precede BELGRADE Last 308 Dutch Leave Srebrenica 
The last of the Dutch peacekeepers who watched helplessly as their
``safe zone'' of Srebrenica fell to the Bosnian Serbs last week left
Bosnia Friday.
``We are extremely happy,'' Dutch Defense Minister Joris Voorhoeve said
at a news conference in London, where international leaders met to try
to find ways to salvage the U.N. mission in Bosnia.
A 15 kilometer (nine-mile) convoy of 220 jeeps, trucks and other
vehicles carrying 308 peacekeepers crossed into Serbia at 2 p.m. (1200
GMT). Serbian police said all the Dutch peacekeepers had left
Srebrenica.
By early evening, about 170 vehicles headed down the main highway out
of Serbia toward U.N. headquarters at Zagreb, Croatia. Twenty-one
trucks, each carrying an armored personnel carrier, headed toward
Dobanovci, a town some 20 kilometers (12 miles) northwest of Belgrade,
where there is a large U.N. warehouse.
The Dutch also took 26 Bosnian personnel with them, for fear they would
be harmed if they were left behind, Voorhoeve said.
The peacekeepers were kept largely confined in their compound at
Potocari, just north of Srebrenica town, when thousands of terrified
Muslims fled there as the rebel Serbs swept into the enclave July 11.
By July 12, Bosnian Serb commander Gen. Ratko Mladic, and his troops
arrived at Potocari and began busing thousands of Muslim women,
children and old men out towards Bosnian government lines.
Some 15,000 Srebrenica men set off through the woods to reach
government territory. Around 4,000 made it, but there is no word on the
fate of the 11,000 others, or of men and young women taken away by the
Serbs from Potocari.
Seventy-five Dutch peacekeepers, 55 of them detained by the Serbs
before and during the capture of Srebrenica, arrived in the Netherlands
last Monday hinting they had seen ``horrible'' episodes, but afraid to
tell more because of their comrades still in the town.
``Of course, in the last several days, we felt that our freedom of
speech was constrained by the fact that there were so many Dutch
military still in the hands of the Bosnian Serb military,'' Voorhoeve
admitted in London.
``Fortunately, they are free now, and our freedom of speech is
restored,'' he said.
Voorhoeve said the soldiers would be interviewed as to exactly what
happened in Srebrenica. Refugees have arrived in government-held Bosnia
with horrendous tales of rape, murder and other atrocities.
``We do not have a complete picture, but we know enough tto say that
terrible things happened,'' Voorhoeve said.
``There are serious indications that many people were killed, and that
thousands of men were taken away, first of all to a large soccer
field,'' he said, adding that thousands are missing.
