Iranian polls overshadowed by anti-Israel campaign
Iranians went to the polls Friday for a second round of parliamentary
elections held in the shadow of a furious campaign against Israel for
its onslaught in Lebanon.
Iranian officials stepped up attacks on Israel and its chief ally, the
United States, as the country's paramount leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei
urged Hezbollah guerrillas to strike back and make the Jewish state
pay.
Parliament speaker Ali Akbar Nategh-Nuri lashed out at the
international community for their "deadly silence" toward Thursday's
shelling of a UN refugee compound in south Lebanon by Israel which
killed almost 100 people.
Anti-US and anti-Israeli propaganda flooded the airwaves, with news on
the polls mixed with images of bloody scenes from Israel's attacks
against the Iranian-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon.
Hardline conservatives, led by Nategh-Nuri, have seized the occasion to
urge the electorate not to vote for "liberals," a term they use to
describe their moderate rivals close to President Ali Akbar Hashemi
Rafsanjani.
"Vote for those who do not want to compromise with the United States,
those who have their hearts in the values of the (1979) Islamic
revolution," Nategh-Nuri said.
Radio or television sets were set up in all polling stations, where
voters were bombarded with speeches from leading political or religious
personalities denouncing liberalism.
The television broadcast excerpts from Khamenei speeches urging people
to bar from the parliament "those whose antennae are tuned to the West
and the United States."
Although all the candidates have already been screened to ensure they
live up to the principles of the Islamic republic, Khamenei warned the
electorate on Friday to only vote for those "who work for God and
religion."
His statements were clearly in favor of the conservatives, who are
backed by the Shiite Moslem clergy and demand "absolute obedience" to
Khamenei.
In the run-up to the polls, the conservatives, backed by state radio,
television and hardline newspapers, launched a bitter campaign to
discredit the moderates, accusing them of seeking to undermine the
values of the Islamic revolution.
A total of 246 hopefuls were contesting 123 seats in the 270-member
assembly undecided in the first-round vote. In Tehran, 56 candidates
vied for 28 seats up for grabs.
The conservatives won 88 of the 134 seats decided in the first round on
March 8 and they are hoping for another sweep over the reformists.
Appearing at a polling station to cast his vote, Rafsanjani said the
campign was "harsh," but urged the two factions not to bear any grudges
and "work together again after the election whatever the results are."
Voting was to last until 6 p.m. (1430 GMT), but the interior ministry
said it had extended the period for one hour to allow more people to
vote.
AFP correspondents visiting several polling stations in Tehran said
turnout appeared to be lower than the first round, when according to
officials 25 million of the 32 million electorate voted.
