Cash Using Ballet Exercises To Aid Comeback 
Former Wimbledon champion Pat Cash hopes a new service action and
ballet exercises will prove the key to success as he attempts another
tennis comeback.
The 29-year-old Australian has been plagued by injuries since his
Wimbledon triumph in 1987 and underwent back surgery 11 months ago.
He underlined he is serious about his latest return to the courts with
a pair of impressive victories Sunday at the Hopman Cup teams event at
the Burswood Superdome.
Cash downed Christo van Rensburg 7-5, 6-2 in the men's singles and he
and Kristine Radford then beat Van Rensburg and Amanda Coetzer 7-6
(7-2), 7-6 (11-9) as Australia defeated seventh-seeded South Africa 2-1
in a first-round match.
Cash said the ballet exercises helped him strengthen his back, while
the new service action aims at putting less pressure on the problem
area.
``It's not actually dancing or anything like that,'' he said. ``It's an
exercise routine that the ballet dancers do. It is basically keeping up
the strength work and the stretching exercises to get me mobile
again.''
Cash said his serve now involves less twisting.
``To say that I hadn't been through some inconsistent periods with my
other serve would be lying,'' he said. ``I think every player has
problems with their serve, but as far as power goes, I think it's now
as powerful, if not more powerful.
``I've done a lot of studying and video analysis of my serve, and the
serves of other players, to help me visualize the right way to serve.
``It might not look that obvious to most people, but it's a quite
significant change.''
Cash, who led Australia to two Davis Cup titles, said he still is a
long way from his best.
``I've been working like a slave to get back and things are going well
so far,'' he said.
``The object is to start playing these (top) guys, so it's obviously
very exciting for me to start playing them again -- at least being in
the tournaments with them.
``Maybe you lose the first round a few times, but it doesn't matter as
long as you are in there.
``The goal is to keep improving and stay injury-free, and if you do
that you'll play good tennis.''
Cash's current comeback is his third since his Wimbledon triumph -- and
he says he is more determined than ever.
``With my back they wrote me off and I came back, and after my Achilles
injury they wrote me off and I came back.
``I think people are going to run out of ink before I disappear.''
