Italian designers, playing it low-key due to their country's ongoing
anti-corruption investigation, are nonetheless storming the gates of
Hollywood with a fatal attraction for movie star glamour.
As the women's ready-to-wear collections for next spring and summer got
under way in Milan, designers plunged -- if not headlong, at least
chest forward and buttocks out -- into a 1990s take on '30s and '40s
silver screen glamour.
Bra tops, corset bodices, rhinestones, feathers and stiletto heels
appear almost diversionary tactics to distract attention from the
continuing judicial inquiries that have some of the most respected
design houses in Italy admitting to bribing government tax officials.
Representatives of seven design houses (including Giorgio Armani,
Gianfranco Ferre, Santo Versace of Gianni Versace and Mariuccia
Mandella of Krizia) avoided legal retribution by cooperating with
officials. Each insisted that the bribes were solicited and a necessary
part of doing business with government auditors.
Meanwhile, the usually standoffish Beppe Modenese, who handles press
relations for the Milan women's collections, is fondly pressing the
hands of U.S. journalists and talking of how much the Italian designers
need their friends in America.
On the runway, however, Italians are up to their same tricks --
dressing supermodels like Barbie dolls. And this season Barbie totters
in on high, high heels, dripping rhinestones and puffing a cigarette
through a long black holder. Many of these fashion photos won't be high
on the American Cancer Society's shopping list.
-- Oliver: The story here is primarily a pale one with bits of stones
and fluff -- that is, rhinestones and fluffy marabou.
Oliver, Valentino's secondary line, was on view in tableau form, rather
than in a runway extravaganza. Three groups of mannequins represented
various groups, while supertall, superblond and superlong-legged model
Nadja Auermann created tableaux on a small stage in a sweltering room.
With hair set in platinum blond waves, Auermann -- and a number of
giant video screens -- summoned up images of a sensuous Marlene
Dietrich.
Sequined white shorts were worn under a black satin tuxedo jacket. A
long, white vinyl raincoat protected a black double-breasted ottoman
jacket and black satin pants. Bold accessories -- rhinestone
suspenders, huge rings, bracelets and feather-shaped brooches --
accessorized the glamour looks.
Pastels -- yellow, pink and beige -- colored synthetic crepe suits,
which often consisted of a jacket and flared shorts instead of a skirt
or trousers.
-- Dolce &AMP; Gabbana: At Dolce &AMP; Gabbana, there is still a
tailored elegance. It's the accessories, such as bras and bustiers
instead of blouses, that steal the show.
From Isabella Rossellini's entrance in a see-through black coat, opaque
dress, briefcase and cigarette, to the long closing parade of models in
black bras and tight skirts with black satin tummy panels, there was
little doubt that suggestion and evidence of the human form were the
medium.
The message was reportedly glamour.
Black dominated the collection, with almost incidental swaths of red,
white leopard or tortoise prints, florals and bright pastels. Fabrics,
for the most part, were sheer or shiny.
Organza covered gabardine. Mesh sweaters worked with stretch satin.
Plastic was good for more than raincoats. A black marabou bolero was a
tease, and the pink and peach lacy teddies beneath the brown or black
striped pantsuits, were ... confidence-inspiring?
The tuxedo image is a major one already, after only a couple of days
into the market. But Dolce &AMP; Gabbana jazzed it up with aqua satin
and rhinestone trim. And what a good little Barbie, with her rhinestone
cross and pastel pink leather or peach organza dresses and coats. For
the more sophisticated, simple rhinestone-studded black suits will work
for the cocktail hour.
There were lots of silly girl looks in this collection, but also lots
that real women will appreciate.
-- Mariella Burani: Bare skin, sexiness and skin-hued suedes are strong
offerings from Mariella Burani. Suede slip dresses and shifts have
pretty and revealing openwork embroidery.
There is lots of color in the designs -- pleated and flaring crepe
dresses with polka dots, daisies on cotton, rosebuds on blue silk and
tiger-patterned cottons. But the line also offers black-and-white
optical patterns, as well as black-and-cream suits and dresses.
Tablecloth trims on white linen shifts, worn with mesh gloves and straw
hats, lead one to believe the Mariella Burani line is the Laura Ashley
of Italy.
