Rwandan refugees warn of chaos over repatriation plan 
The main Rwandan refugee organisation on Friday warned of mass panic
following a deal to repatriate Hutus currently in eastern Zaire, while
the UN agency for refugees expressed serious misgivings.
"There will be panic and chaos," the executive secretary for the Rally
for the Return of Refugees and Democracy in Rwanda (RDR), Innocent
Butare, told AFP in Nairobi a day after the Zairean and Rwandan
premiers announced the plan.
Zairean Prime Minister Leon Kengo wa Dondo said in the Rwandan capital
Kigali that camps in the east of his country, housing about a million
refugees, will be emptied by next May, when general elections are due
in Zaire.
He told a news conference, attended by his Rwandan counterpart
Pierre-Celestin Rwigema, that the repatriation exercise would begin
rapidly and would be "massive, organised and unconditional".
The camps around Goma and Bukavu, north and south of Lake Kivu on the
joint border, are home to Hutus who are unwilling to go home for fear
of reprisals by the Tutsi-dominated government for genocide during the
Rwandan civil war of 1994.
"If they are forced to leave the camps, they will flee in all
directions and those who return to Rwanda will find neither their land
nor security," Butare protested.
He charged that the refugee issue was being exploited by Zairean
officials "for domestic political purposes", adding: "But the refugees
are going to suffer and I don't see how they could upset the electoral
process."
Rwigema on Thursday sought to assure Hutu refugees, saying he could
give them the same guarantees of safety and peace as "those which the
government has already given to six million Rwandans inside the
country".
Declaring himself "astonished", Butare said the refugees were afraid of
being chased out of the camps. "Some of them called us last night.
They're scared and there is panic," he declared.
He added that the RDR had submitted detailed proposals for the return
of refugees and had "hoped to be consulted", protesting that in
Thursday's announcement there was "no talk of the safety of the
refugees".
The announcement also drew criticism Friday from the office of the UN
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Geneva, where a spokesman
said the agency had not been told of the deal.
"These were bilateral discussions. We were not informed," UNHCR
spokesman Fernando del Mundo said.
He stressed that the UNHCR was "not going to be part of any forced
repatriation" and stated that the agency wanted to be notified of the
details and the timetable of the plan to evacuate the camps.
Del Mundo recalled that the Zairean and Rwandan governments had both in
the past made commitments to resolve the refugee issue on the basis of
voluntary repatriation and not expulsions.
"These are our standards," he said.
The UNHCR and the two governments have made several voluntary
repatriation deals since Zaire forcibly expelled several thousand
Rwandans in August last year, but they have led to nothing.
According to a statement issued by the Zairean and Rwandan leaders,
"operations to separate intimidators from the innocent people" in the
camps "will be pursued". Several dozen of these Hutu extremists are
reported to have been arrested.
They are thought to have taken part in the 1994 genocide in which at
least half a million people, mainly from the Tutsi minority, were
slaughtered before a Tutsi-led rebel front seized power in Kigali.
The extremists are accused of preventing other Hutu refugees from
returning home and of armed incursions into Rwanda.
UN human rights observers said in a report published on Thursday that
365 people had been killed in Rwanda in armed incidents in July. It
said 226 of these deaths were attributable to "agents of the
government", including the Rwandan army.
