Concerns over intervention sends dollar lower in Tokyo 
The dollar fell sharply against the yen Thursday as remarks by a top
finance official triggered worries about central bank intervention, but
it recovered some ground in late trade, dealers said.
At 5:00 p.m. (0800 GMT), the dollar was quoted at 121.34-37 yen, down
from 121.45 yen earlier in the day and down from 122.18 yen in New York
late Wednesday.
Against the mark, the US unit was quoted at 1.6408-11, compared with
1.6397 marks earlier and 1.6435 marks in New York late Wednesday.
The dollar fell to as low as 121.25 yen on revived worries that
Japanese authorities may seek to stem the dollar's rapid gains.
Against the yen, the dollar was affected by investor caution from
midmorning about the possibility of greenback selling by the Bank of
Japan to support the yen against the dollar, dealers said.
Concerns about central bank intervention resurfaced after reported
remarks by Eisuke Sakakibara, director-general of the finance
ministry's international finance bureau.
"We will conduct it (intervention) at an effective time, when we judge
that (the yen's depreciation) is truly negative to the Japanese
economy," Sakakibara was quoted by Jiji Press as telling a meeting of
the Liberal Democratic Party.
US funds however turned modest buyers after early selling of the dollar
ran out of steam, dealers said.
"US funds are buying the dollar against the yen at the 121.30-yen
level, providing the dollar with downside buying support," a dealer at
Dresdner Bank said.
Against the mark, the dollar was holding clear of the 1.6390 mark level
in mid-afternoon trade, supported by modest buying support just below
that level, dealers said.
The dollar still has room for further falls against the mark, dealers
said, but with further declines here likely to be in line with
dollar-yen moves.
"If the dollar continues its correction against the yen, this is
expected to drive the dollar down against the mark as well," a dealer
at Tokai Bank said.
