Trade Pact Casts Shadow For Garment Workers
They are scared, angry and frustrated, but mostly scared. Many have
worked in the garment mills of Lehigh Valley for 30 years and more. The
whine of sewing machines and dust of fabric have become as familiar as
early snows and now the threat of unemployment.
While the removal of worldwide trade barriers and the lowering of
tariffs under the North American Free Trade Agreement and GATT are
expected to help American high-tech and service industries, they mean
fear among the nation's garment workers.
These are men and women of modest means from modest towns, like this
one in the rolling hills above the Allentown-Easton corridor of eastern
Pennsylvania, who cut large swaths of cloth and sew together the
various elements that become a piece of clothing. They already work for
relatively low pay, about $15,000 a year, but they face strong
competition from places like Bangladesh, Taiwan, Singapore, where wages
are far lower, working conditions bad and benefits virtually
nonexistent.
But the rush toward a free trade world, which began during the Reagan
and Bush years, is threatening the little security American garment
workers still have. Their industry has been in turmoil for more than 30
years, as many of the mills in the North fled to the South and then
overseas. In its peak year of 1973, the International Ladies' Garment
Workers' Union had more than 1.2 million members around the country,
mostly women; by June of this year, membership had dropped below
800,000.
In the Lehigh Valley, the decline has been even worse. A study released
last month by Thomas Hyclak, a professor of economics at Lehigh
University, found that the region lost almost 54 percent of apparel
workers from 1972 through 1990. While types of manufacturing jobs also
fled the region in that time, the decline in apparel was one of the
steepest.
The area has managed to attract new jobs in insurance, health care and
other service industries, but many apparel workers, trained for nothing
else, say they have no idea what they could do if their factories
closed down. They feel that trade pacts like GATT, the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, will jeopardize their well-being.
``It seems like a dying industry,'' said Tammy Impechiate, a
37-year-old mother of three who works as a seamstress at Fashions by
Danielle here, even though her husband, Joseph, is a part owner. ``Used
to be, there was a blouse mill on every corner. Now, there's only a
handful left. Even when I started out of high school 19 years ago,
mills were everywhere. Now, it's scary. You don't know if your company
is going to close down or if you can get another job. I've got children
who want to go to college. I don't know if I can afford to send them.''
Mrs. Impechiate is typical of apparel workers in the region. Many
finished high school, married young, moved into small houses on an acre
or two of land, found a job in the mills and never did anything else.
Never had to. For the most part, they led quiet, stable lives.
But through the 1980s, and more so now with the conclusion of the
international trade agreements, the feeling of insecurity pervades
every garment factory.
Some, like Maryann Corcione, who sews blouses for Scotty's Fashions in
Little Gap, Pa., already work a second job to make ends meet. For 12
hours every two weeks she cleans a bank. Her husband, James, is a
maintenance worker at a K-Mart.
Mrs. Corcione and others in the plant have already seen life without
Scotty's, a family-owned business that operates five plants in the
region. The company shut down for six months two years ago and called
back just over half the 2,100 employees. She was one of the lucky ones.
``I worked at the bank a little more and kept hoping I'd get my job
back,'' she said. ``I called every day, asking what was going on.''
And if the plant closed again? ``I don't know what I'd do,'' she said.
I was a meat-packer once. Maybe I could go back to that field if
something happened. Without experience at anything else, forget it.''
Many workers say they know of GATT but understand little of the
economic theory that says it will make the country richer over all.
They believe it is only the latest nail in the garment industry coffin.
But Nancy Shoemaker, a 54-year-old sewer at Anna Sportswear in Pen
Argyl, says she understands all right. She follows all the political
developments that affect the industry, and GATT makes her boil.
``What's a little person going to say?'' she said. ``What good does it
do to scream our heads off? We're helpless.'' A single mother with
three grown children, she has worked almost 25 of her 59 years in the
mills and watched many of her friends lose their jobs.
``The industry I work in is not going to be here in a short while,''
she said. ``Textiles are gone. We ought to have a Boston Tea Party for
textiles, bomb the ships as they bring in the goods. Am I afraid? Of
course, I'm afraid. Wouldn't you be scared?''
She mustered up a laugh. ``I'm going to be on welfare, if the
Republicans don't do away with it.''
