Chinese swimmer Lu Bin resurfaces after two-year suspension
Former world record holder Lu Bin, at the centre of a doping scandal that
shook Chinese swimming in 1994, has returned to training after serving a
two-year suspension and could compete in the 2000 Olympics.
"Lu competed last month in the national championships in Guangzhou,"
the Women's Daily reported Monday.
In 1994, Lu stunned the swimming world by winning a gold medal in the
200 metre individual medley at the Rome world championships as well as
silver medals in the 100m and 200m freestyle, then set a world record
in the 200m individual medley at the Asian Games in Hiroshima.
But the glory was short-lived when Lu and 10 teammates, including six
swimmers, tested positive in Hiroshima for banned drugs. Lu was
suspended for two years by the international swimming federation and
her world record was struck from the books.
Accused of systematic drug use by many of its world rivals, China was
shunned internationally and continues to struggle to recover from the
effects of the doping scandal.
In Guangzhou, Lu competed only in the 100m backstroke but failed to
qualify for the final, the paper said without mentioning other Chinese
swimmers caught in Hiroshima, among them Yang Aihua, former world
record-holder in the 400m freestyle.
Lu was never far from the pool during her suspension, but had only
returned to full training at the beginning of the year, the paper said.
Although she had been "very affected psychologically" by the doping
scandal, Lu "quickly regained her physical condition but has lost her
enthusiasm," the paper added.
She now struggles to cover 50km (30 miles) a week in training, down
from the 70 to 80km (40 to 50 miles) she formerly swam, it said.
But her reduced training did not deter Lin Senlin, manager of the
Chinese swimming team, from foreseeing a bright future for the
19-year-old Lu.
Lu still has the ability to excel at the highest levels "in freestyle,
backstroke and individual medley," Lin was quoted as saying by the
paper.
"If she regains her mental strength, she can train at the level she was
at before," Lin added.
The paper said that the Chinese swimming federation was counting on Lu
for the 2000 Olympics.
Lin, who is from the northeastern city of Liaoning, could return to
international competition in January during the Beijing leg of the
World Cup short-course competition.
Her main goal is the Chinese national championships in April, selection
meet for the eighth National Games in October, China's most important
competition in 1997.
