Larsson goes through as Dreekmann self-destructs by Keith Dickson 
Magnus Larsson clawed his way back from the brink of certain defeat and
saved six match points against German teenager Hendrik Dreekmann to
reach the men's singles semi-finals of the French Open here on
Wednesday.
Larsson completed his 'houdini-style' escape on a sun-baked Roland
Garros centre-court, scoring a 3-6, 6-7 (1/7), 7-6 (7/3), 6-0, 6-1
victory in a dramatic three-hour duel.
The 6ft 3in Swede now plays either fifth-seeded Croatian Goran
Ivanisevic or Alberto Berasategui of Spain for a place in next Sunday's
final.
The other semi-final will be between twice-champion and seventh seed
Jim Courier, and the man who beat him in last year's final, Sergi
Bruguera of Spain.
Dreekmann, who at 19 years 4 months was the youngest player left in the
draw, looked to have the match well sewn up in the third-set. But after
failing to take any of the six chances offered him, he self-destructed.
And once the 46th-ranked Larsson had seen the light at the end of the
tunnel there was no stopping him. He surged back -- his groundstrokes
homing in on their targets with deadly accuracy -- to win nine games in
a row.
Little wonder the young German raised his arms in a victory signal when
he at last held serve for 1-3 in the final set.
But by then it was too late and the damage was done.
Dreekmann, who had put out fifteenth-seed Carlos Costa of Spain in the
second-round, hit eleven double-faults and put less than 50 percent of
his first serves in play.
Larsson, who fired down a score of aces, first hit the headlines at
last year's United States Open when he reached the quarter-finals after
defeating Boris Becker.
Dreekmann, ranked 89th, had been hoping to become the first German
player to win the title since Henner Henkel beat Henry Austin in 1937.
"I was very lucky today. I had nothing to lose when I had the match
points against me," admitted Larsson.
"Obviously I'm very, very happy with the result. I've never been down
like that before and managed to come back."
