Losing Party Hails Carter Center Report Condemning Haiti Election Count
The head of a prominent political party expressed delight Friday over a
report by the Atlanta-based Carter Center that was sharply critical of
Haiti's chaotic June elections.
``The Carter report proves there are still democrats who will defend
the integrity of the democratic process,'' said Serge Gilles, the
leader of the socialist National Progressive Revolutionary Party and a
critic of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
The June 25 elections were marred by widespread irregularities. Ballots
were burned, hundreds of voting stations never opened and tens of
thousands of people never got to vote. Makeup elections have been set
for Aug. 6.
Virtually all political parties except for the triumphant Lavalas
Platform, a three-party coalition endorsed by Aristide, condemned the
balloting and vowed to boycott makeup and runoff elections.
The Carter Center _ an Atlanta-based organization headed by former U.S.
President Jimmy Carter _ said the international community should insist
that the opposition's concerns be addressed.
``Until then, the democratic process cannot go forward,'' the report
said.
It recommended several steps ``to salvage the election and regain the
parties' confidence,'' including: expanding the number of makeup
elections; permitting some mayoral election runoffs; replacing half the
Provisional Election Council by consensus candidates proposed by the
parties; and, the writing of a new electoral law.
Robert A. Pastor of the Atlanta-based organization headed by former
U.S. President Jimmy Carter said the most serious problem in the local
and legislative elections was a compromised ballot count.
``Of 13 elections that I have observed, the June 25th Haitian elections
were the most disastrous technically with the most insecure count,''
Pastor wrote in the report released Thursday. ``I personally witnessed
the tainting of about one-third of all ballots in Port-au-Prince.''
Pastor said officials did not finish the count or seal the boxes as the
law requires. But he said the violations did not seem to be the result
of an organized effort.
``Some in the international community would close their eyes to this
travesty, but that would be unfair to the Haitian people, who together
with the political parties are the ultimate judges of the election,''
Pastor wrote.
He recommended trying to salvage the elections by allowing more
runoffs, asking election officials to suggest improvements and
encourage mediation among the 28 disgruntled parties.
U.S. Embassy spokesman Stan Schrager responded to the report by
recommending that ``a compromise ... be sought by everyone, electoral
council and political parties.'' He said he had not given up hope that
the boycott would fail.
Interviewed on Quisqueya Radio, Schrager said the United States must
accept the results of the elections.
``What else can we do?'' he said. ``If we impose our point of view, we
will be accused of meddling in the country's internal affairs.''
The report was rejected by Aristide supporter Patrick Norzeus,
mayor-elect of Delmas, a capital suburb which includes the Cite Soleil
slum.
``Carter has always been close to the Republicans on Haiti policy. No
one is surprised that the Carter Foundation has come out with such a
negative report,'' he said.
He said the opposition parties ``don't practice democracy within their
ranks'' and ``don't know how to lose.''
A U.S.-led force reinstated Aristide last fall, dismantling the former
army regime that had ousted the elected president in 1991.
Representatives of 10 small parties who met with Aristide at the
National Palace on Thursday have agreed to participate in upcoming
elections, presidential spokesman Yvon Neptune said Friday. He refused
to specify which parties they represented.
When Carter visited Haiti in February, Aristide supporters criticized
him severely for what they called interference in Haiti's elections.
The Carter Center, whose goals include conflict resolution and
democracy-building, was not invited to monitor the June 25 elections,
but it sent Pastor anyway.
