Kosher Food Goes Modern
In recent years, culinary inspiration has been found in ``peasant
cuisine'' -- the hearty, cheap, simple fare cooked by poor folk the
world over.
Or in most of the world. The ancestors of most American Jews came from
Poland, Russia, and other flavor-free zones of Eastern Europe, where
potatoes, noodles, radishes, turnips accounted for the principal foods.
Among the few ingredients that added zip to a poor family's table were
sugar, onions, salt and pepper. Meat dishes ranged from gefilte fish
(flavor: vaguely fishy, with a little pepper or sugar) to boiled
brisket (flavor: vaguely beefy with raisins) to boiled chicken (flavor:
gone).
Packaged kosher foods generally are blander than real down-home
cooking. Preparers of kosher foods generally place their emphasis on
following the exacting standards of cleanliness and ritual that are
required to earn food the appellation ``kosher.''
But ``kosher'' means ``proper,'' and there is no intrinsic reason for
it to be boring. Indeed, the kosher foods eaten by Jews of Middle
Eastern origin include a variety of exotic flavorings and textures, and
the delicatessen pastramis and corned beef briskets are anything but
dull.
A new generation of Orthodox Jews is in the making. (Although some
Reform and many Conservative Jews keep kosher, the Orthodox are the
hard-core of the kosher market.)
These young professionals grew up in the age of television and fast
food and they demand the kinds of amenities that secular young
professionals get: a gourmet TV dinner they can heat up after a busy
day at the office, a kosher Pop-Tart they can grab as they race out the
door in the morning, even a kosher analog to Weight-Watchers' low-fat
meals.
It took a while for the kosher food industry to catch up, but now that
demand is being met. Witness the frozen food case of Price Chopper on
Central Avenue here, which has the region's largest kosher section.
You'll find the traditional split pea soups, gefilte fish, and
blintzes, but you'll also find Palmazone brand eggplant parmigian,
Legume brand Mexican-style enchiladas, even Mendel's Haymishe Brand
``It's Not Shrimp'' and ``It's Not Crab.''
Haymishe means ``home-style, the way mamma used to make,'' notes Janice
Horowitz.
Horowitz, the wife of Rabbi Jonathan Horowitz of the Orthodox Beth
Israel congregation in Schenectady, N.Y., adds: ``I've been served the
`crab' at weddings, and I supposed it was all right. Of course, I've
never eaten crab, so I can't tell you it's just like the real thing.''
She has noticed over the past few years a tenfold increase in the
variety of available prepared kosher foods. The trend started in New
York City, with an Orthodox population in the tens of thousands and an
overall Jewish population of more than a million.
``There are new lines of vegetarian and healthful frozen dinners; a
real attempt to make good-tasting, well-balanced meals for the Kosher
market,'' says Mona Golub, who oversees the purchasing of kosher and
specialty foods for the Price Chopper chain.
``It's not a particularly large share of the market,'' Golub adds,
``but it's a market we've made a commitment to serve. We're in the
process of adding 50 new items to the kosher departments we have in
eight of our stores.''
One new product is the ``Mon Cuisine'' line of prepared meals. The
exotic (for kosher, anyway) fare that includes chili fiesta, linguini
with vegetables and chicken Mediterranean is packed in trendy, colorful
microwave-safe and oven-proof cartons.
Bubbie wouldn't know what to make of it.
She would probably find the Start Fresh line even more confusing: This
is the kosher equivalent of Weight Watcher meals, with carefully
doled-out portions of Mexican chicken, vegetable or salmon croquettes,
stuffed peppers and turkey chili.
``The kosher consumer is getting much more sophisticated,'' says Marcia
Bodenstein, from Start Fresh's Brooklyn headquarters.
``There are kosher cookbooks for French, for Italian; they've been
eating it at home, and when they can't cook they want something of
similar quality. When you go down to Boro Park (the Orthodox section in
New York City), you see Chinese restaurants, Italian restaurants. The
same thing goes for their expectations, now, in a weight-loss
program.''
Why are these products coming out now?
``Avarice,'' says Eli Schwartz, laughing heartily. Schwartz is
president of Meal Mart, manufacturer of the Mon Cuisine line. (The name
is a bilingual pun: in French it means ``my cooking,'' but the Hebrew
``mon'' is the word that appears in the English Bible as ``mannah,''
the miraculous food that God gave the Israelites in the desert.)
Schwartz believes that kosher gourmet is a marketing concept whose time
has come.
``These products are low-fat, low-sodium. We have meatless hot dogs
that are an all-natural product. We're talking light-years away from
the traditional foods, where frankly they should have a surgeon
general's warning about what they'll do to your arteries.''
Schwartz proudly notes that retail prices are kept to within a few
cents of non-kosher meals like Stouffers and Budget Gourmet, since
Kosher food often commands a significant price premium.
The company is looking toward the broader Jewish population, as well as
the general public, to buy Mon Cuisine -- particularly because it's
hard to get a handle on just how large the kosher market is.
``Actual numbers?'' Schwartz shrugs.
Ellis Sheber, whose Albany company, ES Marketing, handles much of the
distribution of kosher foods in the region, estimates that maybe 2,500
people are picking up kosher products regularly.
