Protest One Person Short Of Success
The counter-inauguration protests held in Washington Wednesday were one
person short of success, analysts reported Thursday.
"It's a pity that so many people who support our cause didn't make it
out," said Jet Heiko, who organized the protest through his website
TurnYourBackOnBush.org. "If one more person had come through for us,
Bush would have had a moment of clarity and changed his entire approach
to governing America."
"I guess that one person who didn't show had other plans," Heiko said.
Protesters who lined the Pennsylvania Avenue parade route and turned
their backs on the president's motorcade had the stated goal of
"forcing President Bush to respond to widespread criticism of his
administration." To the disappointment of Heiko and his fellow
protesters, Bush was able to continue to ignore widespread criticism,
because of the one person who didn't show up.
"If 25,000 protesters had turned their backs on Bush, he would have
publicly acknowledged that a huge portion of America disapproves of his
policies," Heiko said. "As it is, 24,999 of us wasted our Wednesday on
a little monkey charade."
Polls confirmed that, due to underattendance, the protest also failed
to reach its second goal: altering public opinion of Bush.
Casey Baldwin of Lake Charles, LA saw a photograph of the protests on
page A32 of the Natchitoches Times.
"There were 24,999 of them standing out there, facing the wrong way,"
Baldwin said. "It looked pretty silly, to tell the truth."
Heiko said he was reluctant to censure the person responsible for
turning what would have been a successful protest into an irrelevant
social hour.
"Maybe the one person who allowed Bush to ignore the opinions of 45
percent of America has a busy schedule," Heiko said. "I sure hope he
had a good reason for making all 24,999 of us stand out in the cold
looking foolish for three hours."
In Quantum Power To The People, Alan Jeffords explains that protests
must attain a "magical number" in order to be effective.
"Often, an individual believes that his participation in a protest
isn't important," Jeffords said. "This couldn't be further from the
truth. In every protest that has ever failed in the entire history of
the world, the failure has been scientifically traced back to a single
individual who didn't bother to show up."
For both progressive and conservative protesters, this participation
tipping point often proves maddeningly elusive.
In 1998, the Sierra Club's rally to protect an old-growth forest in
northeastern Washington failed because Seattle environmentalist Eddie
Burgess decided to forgo the protest and "jam with his buddies."
In 1999, the effort to withdraw city funding from the Brooklyn Art
Museum for the Sensation exhibition would have been successful, had Jed
Maheu shown up on the exhibit's opening day. Instead, Maheu spent the
day with his daughter, and taxpayer dollars funded the showing of a
Chris Ofili painting that used elephant dung and pornographic photos to
depict the Virgin Mary.
In April 2003, the massive Not In Our Name protests were one person
short of stopping the invasion of Iraq.
Historians agree that a small group of very powerful people has shaped
the nation by staying at home.
"Sixty-one people have defined our era," said Roger Graham, a history
professor at the University of California, Berkeley. "If these
individuals had chosen to attend politically motivated public
gatherings at key moments, we'd be living in a very different country
right now."
Inauguration protester Adrienne Brown said that she's disappointed, but
"naming names doesn't do any good."
"You know who you are," said Brown, who missed work Thursday to drive
to Washington, D.C. "It's your fault that our protest had absolutely no
effect whatsoever on the policies of the Bush administration, and
you've got to live with that."
