Fury over Marijuana is Good for You Campaign
Hungary's quiet arrival into the European Union has given way to a
blazing row after the Magyars declared 'marijuana is good for you' in a
bold bid to boost tax revenue.
The country's new approach to soft drugs', however, has met hard line
opposition from other EU leaders in Brussels who have slammed the
Hungarians as "irresponsible pot-pushing peddlers of death, disease and
moral decay".
That particular outburst came from the moral high ground of the United
Kingdom which has nurtured and preferred its own legion of lager louts'
to the more soporific pursuits of the Netherlands and now Hungary.
Prime Minister Tony Blair warned that the EC could be plunged into a
political crisis if the lax approach on marijuana and cannabis was not
replaced with far more robust legislation.
But with Peter Medgyessy, the Hungarian PM, already announcing his
decision to step down from office, his attitude towards Mr Blair was
relaxed, but far from conciliatory.
In an approximate translation, Mr Medgyessy said: "Calm down man, chill
out; what you need is a really good hit. Will I skin up?"
The Member states were not totally united behind Mr Blair. The Dutch,
all wearing MP3 players, seemed totally nonplussed over the situation
while the Belgian contingent remained silent, raising suspicions that
its stance was linked to the sudden increase in chocolate exports to
the former communist state.
Hungary's legalisation of the Class C drug came with the cultivation of
1,200,000 hectares of the Great Plain, already home to thousands of
orchards, vineyards and bountiful farms.
This year's mixture of blazing sunshine, high humidity and an abundance
of rain saw the hemp crop surpass all expectations. The average plant,
with the Hungarian growers opting for a Northern Light/Haze hybrid,
soared well above 2.5m. This first crop is expected to finally surpass
125,000 tonnes.
The Magyar government has levied a hefty tax rate on marijuana and
resin sales with a kilo of high quality, top leaf grass' selling for
4,126 HUF (approx $20).
While this is still an expensive luxury for many ordinary Hungarians,
it is a bargain basement price for tourists.
Villagers have been quick to capitalise by setting up stoner stalls'
and the city of Kecskemét has even introduced a special smoking park'
where tourists can relax with a giant pipe while listening to Hungarian
cover versions of Grateful Dead recordings.
