Security Council Backs Tougher Sanctions 
The U.N. Security Council on Thursday backed a report calling for
tougher sanctions against Angolan rebels, known as UNITA, in an attempt
to halt renewed fighting in Angola.
In a statement read to the press here, the president of the Security
Council for the month of February, Robert Fowler of Canada, said that
15 members of the Council "pledged to be supportive of our efforts to
implement the provisions of this sanctions regime."
The statement was issued after the Security Council's closed-door
discussion of the report presented by the Council's Sanctions
Committee.
Fowler said members focused on "practical" measures and backed the
commissioning of an expert study to trace violations in arms
trafficking, the supply of oil, the diamond trade and the movement of
UNITA funds.
The Security Council accused the rebels of being primarily responsible
for sabotaging a 1994 peace accord that ended 20 years of civil war.
UNITA refused to disarm and hand over land under its control to the
government as called for in the peace accords.
Last week, the council agreed to consider restricting UNITA's
telecommunications links, and to reinforce other sanctions that include
a ban on diamond exports. UNITA has raised an estimated 3.7 billion
U.S. dollars through diamond sales, reports said.
In a report released on Tuesday, the council's committee on sanctions
against Angola proposed enlisting banks and diamond traders to track
rebel funds and enlisting private companies and individuals to track
the transfer of military equipment to the rebels.
The committee, headed by Fowler, also urged that any violation of
sanctions be made a crime. This would make it possible to prosecute
those who provide military or logistical support to the rebels.
He said the committee is trying to determine what measures to impose to
limit UNITA's ability to communicate with one another and the outside
world.
The peace agreement collapsed in early December last year when
government forces failed in its attempt to seize the UNITA-held
territory by force.
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan recommended pulling out the U.N.
mission after two U.N.-chartered C-130 cargo planes crashed
respectively on December 26 last year and January 2 this year as
fighting intensified between rebels and government troops.
The Angolan Government has repeatedly said it wants the 1,000-strong
U.N. Observer Mission to leave because it failed to prevent a
resumption of fighting. However, the Security Council wants to maintain
a small political and military presence in Angola to monitor
developments.
