Two Shougang managers sentenced to death for corruption 
Two senior executives of China steel giant Shougang, embroiled in
financial scandals that led to the resignation of the company's
chairman in February, were sentenced to death for economic crimes,
official sources said Thursday.
Shao Jun, director of subsidiary Shougang Shipping Co., was given a
suspended death sentence in January by Beijing Intermediate People's
Court, according to sources at the metallurgical ministry.
He was accused of accepting 640,000 yuan (76,000 dollars) in bribes.
Yang Liyu, assistant deputy general manager of the Beijing Iron and
Steel Co. of Shougang, another of the group's subsidiaries, also
received a suspended death sentence for allegedly accepting 320,000
yuan in bribes.
Zhao Dongxiang, deputy general manager of the same company, was
sentenced to 10 years in prison.
The chairman of Shougang, Zhou Guanwu, resigned in February a few days
before the arrest of his son Zhou Beifang for alleged fraud.
Zhou Beifang was the head of Shougang's two subsidiaries in Hong Kong.
One of them, Shougang Concord International, was also directed by Deng
Zhifang, the son of China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
Deng Zhifang was also questioned in the case, according to unconfirmed
reports.
Shougang, or Capital Iron and Steel, one of China's largest companies,
was chosen by Deng Xiaoping as a model for his free-market economic
reforms launched in the 1980s.
Meanwhile, Li Geng, a director of Shougang Concord, told the
Beijing-funded Ta Kung Pao newspaper that the company would concentrate
on core iron and steel businesses, under Bi Qun, the company's new
chairman in Beijing.
"We will no longer rush into buying new listed firms" in Hong Kong, Li
said.
Under Zhou Beifang, the former chairman of Shougang Concord, the group
went on a two-year buying spree to acquire interests in several Hong
Kong-listed companies.
The company came on to the Hong Kong bourse in 1993 by way of a
"back-door listing," whereby it acquired obscure companies then
injected assets into them -- thus avoiding China laws on overseas
listing of state companies.
Bi, who was vice minister of China's metallurgical industry, took over
the post as chairman of Shougang Corp. in Beijing after Zhou Guangwu
resigned.
Li reiterated that Zhou Beifang's arrest was "purely a personal matter"
and was in no way related to Shougang's operations in China or in Hong
Kong.
"No one has questioned me concerning him (Zhou Beifang)," said Li,
adding that other top officials of Shougang had not been summoned by
prosecutors to assist in their enquiry into Zhou's case.
Li also denied earlier reports that he was also detained in Beijing
during Zhou's arrest, pointing out that his delayed return to Hong Kong
was due to a visa application that took 45 working days to process.
Under Bi, Shougang underwent numerous restructurings with the sale of a
Hong Kong subsidiary -- the money-losing Hoi Sing Construction -- held
through Shougang Concord Grand.
Shougang has also decided to scrap projects worth 1.19 billion US
dollars due to funding shortages.
