China lashes out at trade partners over dumping charges 
China has accused some of its major trading partners of adopting
"discriminatory" anti-dumping measures and warned that bilateral trade
ties could suffer if the penalties are not rescinded, a report said
Sunday.
According to one senior foreign trade ministry official, Zhang Yuejiao,
dumping penalties imposed recently by the European Union (EU) and other
trade partners on China were based on erroneous research and clearly
biased.
"Anti-dumping measures based on unsound research will eventually harm
trade ties and affect Chinese exporters' readiness to answer dumping
charges," warned Zhang, who is deputy director general of the
ministry's law and treaty department.
Last week, the EU announced a penalty of 2,644 dollars for every tonne
of calcium imported from China, following the lead of other
international importers who have taken a series of similar anti-dumping
measures.
Up to now, more than 170 Chinese exports have been hit by the
penalties, including key exports such as textiles, bicycles and other
light industrial products.
Zhang lashed out at the method used for determining whether China is
selling goods at below production cost, saying it failed to take into
account the country's low-cost labour advantage.
Evaluating production cost by taking a mean figure from other
randomly-chosen countries "is discriminatory in nature, unpredictable,
unfair, and easily leads to erroneous conclusions," he said, adding
that penalties arising from such conclusions were tantamount to
protectionism.
Some 90 percent of Chinese commodities are free of government-set fixed
prices, Zhang said, adding that export subsidies had been abolished
many years ago.
He also pointed out that an unfair competition law adopted this year
stipulated that domestic firms caught selling below cost would face
legal action and punishement.
As well as ruffling trade ties, Zhang warned that countries imposing
penalties on cheap Chinese products would be hurting their own
importers and exporters.
"Unfair anti-dumping measures some countries take against Chinese
exports will harm the interest of their domestic importers and
consumers.
"What's more, a decrease in foreign exchange earnings on the Chinese
side will affect Chinese imports from these countries," Zhang said.
