Exxon announces two-billion-dollar petrochemical venture in Singapore 
Oil giant Exxon Corp. of the United States announced Friday it will
build its largest petrochemical complex in the world at a cost of two
billion US dollars in Singapore.
The complex, the first world-scale plant that is fully integrated with
an oil refinery, will be set up on one of seven islets off Singapore
being amalgamated by the authorities here into a massive petrochemical
site.
"The world-scale size of the complex, coupled with the strong advantage
of being integrated with a major Exxon refinery, will enable it to
supply highly competitive, quality products to the region's growing
markets," senior Exxon executive Warick Bisley told reporters here.
The refinery was Exxon's first major commitment in Singapore in 1969.
Bisley said the complex would be built by Japanese contractor Chiyoda
Corp. and M.W. Kellog of the United States and would begin production
in 2000, expected to be the next petrochemical cycle peak in Asia.
To be called the Singapore Chemical Complex, it would comprise an
800,000-tonnes-per-year steam cracker to make ethylene, propylene and
other products for several major downstream chemical plants.
Ethylene and propylene are basic "building block" petrochemicals.
"We will include in the design of our complex the latest technology
advances adding to the competitiveness of the complex and providing our
products leading edge properties and consistency," said Bisley,
managing director of the Singapore Chemical Complex.
It is a newly formed organisation under Exxon Chemical Singapore Pte.
Ltd. which spearheads Exxon Chemical company's regional management
teams.
The new complex would be the third of its kind in Singapore.
The first two-billion-Singapore-dollar (1.42 billion US) complex,
operated by Petrochemical Corp. of Singapore -- a venture between Anglo
Dutch giant Shell and a Japanese group led by Sumitomo Chemicals --
produces ethylene and propylene.
The second complex, costing 3.4 billion dollars and also owned by the
same partners in Petrochemical Corp. of Singapore, is gearing up for
full commercial operations by the second quarter of 1997.
