India's corporate world eyes young Birla heir
The eyes of India's corporate world are focused on the young heir to
the Birla family fortune following the sudden death of tycoon Aditya
Birla.
Kumaramangalam Birla, 27, a graduate of the London Business School, is
being closely watched as he makes his opening moves after taking the
helm of India's second-largest business group.
Aditya Vikram Birla, who took a century-old family firm in 1983 and
built it into a diversified powerhouse, died of malaria at John Hopkins
Hospital in the US state of Maryland on Sunday at the age of 51.
Aditya Birla, the first Indian businessman to figure in the Forbes'
list of billionaires, was cremated in Bombay on Wednesday in a Hindu
ceremony attended by several thousand friends, admirers and fellow
businessmen.
His only son, Kumaramangalam, inherits 10 domestic and 15 overseas
companies with turnover worth 2.3 billion dollars and is tipped to take
over another 1.3 billion dollars worth of firms from his grandfather,
Basant Birla.
The Birla interests include textiles, cement, fertilisers and metals
and the group has also been striding into fields such as banking,
power, and petroleum to retain its number two slot after the five
billion dollar Tata Group.
A.K. Rungta, president of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce
and Industry, said Aditya Birla had left behind a "highly professional
corporate structure" and ruled out the possibility of hostile
takeovers.
Kanti Poddar, a top industrialist and close family friend of the
Birlas: agreed. "Wait and watch is inevitable," he said. "But we do not
expect any sharks since the Birlas have enough holdings to avoid such
an eventuality."
Poddar, chairman of an agro-business group, said Kumaramangalam had
been "trained well" by his father and possessed the skills needed to
survive in India's new business environment.
The Hindujas, India's fastest-growing business group, said
Kumaramangalam was ready to take on the mantle of his father, who had
acquired a legendary reputation as a visionary in Indian business
circles.
"We are confident Kumaramangalam will build on the many-sided
achievements of Aditya Birla," said Srichand Hinduja, chairman of the
London-based Hindujas group.
Darbarai Seth, a former chairman of Tata Chemicals, said "inheritance
is important, but what you make of your inheritance is even more
important."
Share prices of Birla's 15 overseas firms, which raised a hefty 623
million dollars in the global-depository-receipts market this year,
dropped Tuesday as investors awaited the first moves by the new Birla
heir.
Vinay Rai, chairman of electronics group Usha Rectifier, said it was
too early to know what to expect of the young Birla. "It is too early
to say since no one has seen him in action," he said.
"But it is a big market now and he can be 10 times more aggressive than
his father ever could," Rai said in a reference to free-market reforms
begun by the government of Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao four years
ago.
Indian Rayon, Grasim Industries, a cement leader, Hindalco, a top
aluminium producer, and Indo-Gulf Fertilisers are among the largest
firms in the Birla stable.
