Closer Russia-Japan ties needed before peace treaty: Russian envoy 
The territorial dispute between Japan and Russia over the Kuril island
chain can only be resolved with political will, but first the two
countries need closer ties on all fronts, Russia's ambassador to Tokyo
said Monday.
Bilateral relations, which were once strained, have already warmed
considerably since a 1997 summit between then Japanese prime minister
Ryutaro Hashimoto and former president, Boris Yeltsin, Alexander Panov
told reporters at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan.
But "it is not enough, the level of the relationship is far from the
potential which could help us solve the main problem of the peace
treaty," he said.
Relations between the Pacific neighbours have been dogged by the
dispute over the Kuril islands in the Pacific, over which Tokyo claims
sovereignty, but which were seized by Soviet troops at the end of World
War II.
Tokyo is refusing to sign a formal peace treaty with Moscow until the
issue is settled.
In September 2000 during a Russo-Japanese summit in Tokyo, President
Vladimir Putin said he would stand by his country's 1956 pledge to
return the islands.
But recent opinion polls show the Russian public broadly oppose handing
the islands back, and the Russian parliament last week approved a
proposal recommending Putin abandon efforts to secure a peace treaty
with Japan so as to sidestep Tokyo's demands.
Although the population of the islands is set at just 15,700, the
sector is believed to harbour marine and mineral resources worth tens
of billions of dollars.
Panov, who has spent more than 10 years in Tokyo, the last five as
ambassador, said the past haunted both countries even though they
realised a healthy bilateral relationship would be good for both sides.
"Unfortunately stereotypes of the past are very strong and many in
Russia and Japan still want to see each other through the lens of the
Cold War. Both elites do not pay enough attention to each other," he
said.
Economic exchanges between the Pacific neighbours were not sufficiently
developed, said Panov, who contrasted the lack of enthusiasm for Russia
among Japanese investors compared to their interest in China where he
said the obstacles were at times greater.
