Case filed against fundamentalist leader for blaspheming Koran 
A case has been filed against Golam Azam, chief of the fundamentalist
Jamaat-e-Islami party, for blaspheming the Koran, Islam's holiest book,
newspapers reported here Monday.
The Banglabazar Patrika daily said Saiful Islam Jehangir, a journalist
in northern Rangpur district, filed the case Sunday with the local
magistrate's court, accusing Azam of creating religious fanaticism by
misinterpreting the Koran and the faith itself.
He said Azam, in his book "Adam Shrishtir Hakikath" (Rules of Creation
of Mankind), has suggested that a particular verse of Koran should have
been given at the start of the holy book.
The court accepted the case, the first of its kind against any Islamic
party leader, and sent it for judicial enquiry, the press reports said.
The Jamaat had no immediate comment.
Azam's Jamaat is among the scores of Islamic fundamentalist groups
demanding the trial of Bangladeshi feminist writer Taslima Nasreen, who
was charged with blaspheming the Koran, although she has denied the
allegations.
She emerged from hiding and is now living in seclusion after the High
Court granted her bail last week. She went into hiding two months ago
after a lower court issued an arrest warrant against her for hurting
Islamic sentiments.
Azam, 72, who took over the party leadership a year ago, is blamed by
his opponents for deaths during Bangladesh's 1971 independence war
against Pakistan. His Bangladeshi citizenship, cancelled in 1972 for
alleged collaboration with the Pakistani army during the war, was
restored this year by the Supreme Court.
Using a Pakistani passport, he returned to Bangladesh in 1978 to see
his ailing mother and stayed on.
He had been the defacto party chief, even in exile in Pakistan, and
reassumed the party leadership in July last year after the Supreme
Court rejected a government petition for the stay of a lower court
verdict restoring Azam's citizenship.
The opponents have repeatedly called for his trial on war crime
charges, and the government has said he would be tried according to the
laws of the land, but did not specify a time frame or under what law.
The Jamaat, with 20 seats, is the fourth largest party in the
330-member national parliament.
