The President Should Do The Right Thing And Commit Ritual Hari-Kiri
In the years since my death in 1989, I have observed many political
upheavals in the Realm of the Living. Yet, in all this time, I have
never seen such a shameful display as what is currently unfolding in
your nation's capital. President Clinton's conduct has been base and
without honor, but the humiliation of a public Trial of Impeachment is
an insult without measure. If your leader has any sense of duty, he
will spare his country the dishonor of this vulgar and embarrassing
spectacle, and redeem himself by committing ritual hari-kiri. It is the
only honorable course of action left to him.
The one called Clinton has shamed his House, his family and his
ancestors. He has divided the nation and heaped indignities upon the
highest office of the land. He has brought dishonor to his people and
to his position. There is only one way for him to step down with
dignity, set an example for the children, restore his people's faith in
the presidency, and heal this nation's wounds. He must submit to
seppuku, ritual suicide, and disembowel himself with a ceremonial short
sword, driving the blade into the left side of his abdomen and then
drawing it rightward across his stomach, before turning the blade
upward, toward his heart.
How else can Clinton regain face before the American people? He has
clearly violated the Bushido code of conduct prized by all honorable
men, behaving without dignity, honesty, loyalty or courage. Even before
the scandal, he behaved more like a common Hohei of the lowest rank
than in a manner befitting a Daimyo nobleman. When campaigning for
president in 1996, did he take care to avoid contact with truck
drivers, auto workers and other persons of low social bearing? Sadly,
no. And, when in public, does his wife remain a respectful several
paces behind him at all times as simple decency demands? She does not.
These insults are bad enough. But now, hiding behind words and a
cowardly legalistic defense of his dishonorable actions, he has
disgraced himself to the utmost.
Throughout the entire crisis, Clinton has done only one honorable
thing, and that is to declare war. However, even in this he has
displayed cowardice, striking at Iraqi military targets with
computer-controlled air-to-surface guided missiles instead of giving
the young men of his nation the privilege of sacrificing themselves in
the Divine Wind of the kamikaze. His wife and child have not even
hurled themselves into the sea to regain face for their lineage and
family name. Before long, Kenneth Starr and the Republicans will carry
the head of their enemy through the streets in a kubibukuro bag,
delivering it to their Lords and Masters singing songs of triumph!
Your leader's duty is clear. He should make a pilgrimage to the temples
and shrines of his native Arkansas prefecture, and there offer gifts
and tributes of rice, fruit and prayers, beseeching his ancestors for
their blessing and strength in what he must do. Then he should return
to Washington, kneel upon a traditional tatami straw mat and, in
absolute silence, plunge the blade into his torso.
In committing this act--preferably on national television, so that his
calm and self-control while performing this slowest and most painful
form of suicide can be admired by millions--it is most important that
Clinton choose wisely in selecting his kaishaku-nin, the man who will
be his second and stand behind him to deliver the final jumonji
death-blow. My advice would be not to select the one called Gore. He
seems a weak and ineffectual man, lacking the courage and strength of
will to properly administer the final stroke, which will sever
Clinton's head from his body and end his torment. But that is a matter
that only Clinton can decide.
Why am I saying all of this? Because I, like your President Clinton,
once faced a similar situation and failed to do my duty. In life, I,
like Clinton, embraced "progressive" ideals, seeking to modernize Japan
and bring my nation into the 20th century. When Japan was defeated in
World War II, I chose a course of compromise, accepting the Allied
terms of surrender instead of dying honorably for my homeland, as the
conservatives in my government demanded. After the war, I abolished the
mandatory emperor-worship of State Shinto and publically repudiated my
divinity. I even allowed my eldest son, the Crown Prince Akihito, to
marry a commoner of ignoble birth, betraying 1,500 years of tradition!
I, who could have died gloriously of hari-kiri rather than surrender to
the hated gaijin, instead lived out my final years as a meaningless
figurehead, devoting most of my hours to a trifling interest in
oceanography! I brought shame and disgrace upon my ancestors and my
nation! But now, condemned to walk the Earth for all eternity wrapped
in chains and rags, I have learned the error of my ways. I now know
that the conservatives were right all along. Hear me, Clinton! I, the
ghost of Hirohito, Emperor Of All Japan, say to you this: Do not make
the same mistake I did! Commit ritual hari-kiri now and restore honor
to your race!
