Bundesbank seen as unlikely to lower key rates this week
The Bundesbank will probably leave its key interest rates unchanged at
this week's meeting of its central council, but might make a gesture on
Wednesday on its repurchase rate because of the unexpected drop in the
M3 money supply announced Tuesday, analysts say.
The policy-making central council is to meet on Thursday, and analyst
Jeorg Henzler at Industrial Bank of Japan commented that "We had been
thinking that the Bundesbank would reduce its key interest rates (the
discount rate and the Lombard rate) at the end of September or in early
October. But the July dip in M3 opens up a completely new prospect".
M3, the Bundesbank's mid-term inflation indicator, unexpectedly fell in
July at an annualized 0.4 percent rate on provisional figures, after a
0.4 percent rise in June on final figures. The decline surprised most
analysts, who had expected an annualized rise of 0.7 to 1.2 percent.
The central bank relies mainly on M3 and the consumer price index in
deciding on monetary policy.
Henzler said conditions were now "definitely better" for those hoping
for a cut in the Bundesbank's key rates, and such a move at the central
council meeting on Thursday is not impossible.
The discount rate has been 4 percent since March, and the Lombard 6
percent since May 13 last year.
Holger Fahringkrug, an analyst at Union Bank of Switzerland, said the
decline of M3 on an annual basis in July clearly shows that growth is
slowing in Germany, as was already shown by the drop in incoming orders
to industry (off 3.5 percent in June from May, seasonally adjusted)
announced by the Economics Ministry on Monday.
"This cocktail of data has definitely improved chances of monetary
loosening, and the rate drop could even occur this week", said
Fahringkrug.
The absence of inflation risks in Germany is another argument for
lowering rates, he continued. "Wholesale prices fell by 0.7 percent in
July from June, and industrial production prices by 0.1 percent in July
from June, showing that there are good chances the rise in consumer
prices in western Germany will approach the forecast the Bundesbank
made for 1995, which is 2 percent".
Analyst Peter Pietsch at Commerzbank thinks the Bundesbank will not
reduce its key rates on Thursday, but the securities repurchase
("repo") rate might be cut again on Wednesday this week.
All analysts queried shared this view, and many of them think the
marginal repo rate could go as low as 4.15 percent in the coming weeks.
On August 2, it fell to its present 4.45 percent against 4.50 percent
at the start of June.
The repo rate enables the central bank to fine-tune monetary policy. It
is the rate at which the central bank acquires commercial paper from
the commercial banks for periods ranging from a few days to two months,
in exchange for allocating funds to the banks.
Pietsch thinks the Bundesbank will wait for release on September 6 of
six-month GDP data for Germany before lowering the discount and Lombard
rates.
The bank will also naturally keep an eye on exchange rates, especially
on the level of the dollar, which firmed last week against the mark and
the yen in the wake of large-scale intervention by the US Federal
Reserve, the Bank of Japan and the Bundesbank.
Analyst John Lipsky at Salomon Brothers commented that confirmation of
the dollar's new firmness would make a Bundesbank rate cut "less
necessary. A further modest cut in the repo rate remains likely, and
would be enough to make the Bundesbank happy", he said.
Without being so categorical as Lipsky, Henzler also said the
Bundesbank would take time to observe the dollar's trend before
lowering its key rates.
