Peres puts Israel's case to Europe as criticism mounts
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres met European lawmakers on Wednesday
to confront mounting criticism of Israel's role in the breakdown of the
Middle East peace process.
Peres met the European Union's senior foreign policy official and
addressed the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe to defend
Israel's pressure on Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to crack down on
militants.
"If Arafat doesn't bring an end to terrorism, terrorism will bring an
end to him," he warned.
But the Israeli minister was faced with opposition to his government's
stance from Europeans angry that Israeli troops have destroyed
Palestinian installations paid for by the aid budgets of the EU and its
member states.
"The situation today is very dramatic and we have to see how to get out
of the cycle of violence," EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said
after a 45-minute meeting with Peres.
As Peres arrived in Strasbourg tempers were again rising in Israel and
the Palestinian territory after an Israeli raid on the Palestinian town
of Nablus and a rampage in Jerusalem by a Palestinian gunman left a
total of seven dead.
The meeting with Solana came one day after the presidency of the
European Union denounced the Israeli policy of pressuring Arafat by
besieging him in his Ramallah office and destroying Palestinian
infrastructure and homes.
"From our point of view, these acts have nothing to do with the
security needs which the Israeli authorities put forward," said Foreign
Minister Josep Pique of Spain, which currently holds 15-nation bloc's
rotating presidency.
Many of the installations destroyed in recent Israeli raids, including
Gaza's port and airport and a Palestinian broadcasting centre, were
built with the help of EU aid money.
Israeli security forces have inflicted damage worth 17.3 million euros
(15 million dollars) on EU-funded installations in the Palestinian
territories, said a spokesman for European Commissioner for Foreign
Affairs Chris Patten.
A senior European source told AFP that the European Commission was
considering demanding compensation from Israel for the damage done to
the installations, and would send a letter of protest in the coming
days.
"It's a question that needs to be studied on a legal level," the
official said.
Peres defended the attack on the airport and radio station, claiming
Palestinians had fired on Israeli observers watching the airport to
prevent arms smuggling and that the radio broadcasted propaganda.
The Council of Europe has also invited Peres' opposite number in
negotiations to restart the troubled peace process, Palestinian cabinet
minister Saeb Erakat, but it was not clear when he would arrive.
One of the consequences of the destruction of Gaza airport was that
Erakat's travel plans had been made more complicated, although he was
expected to address the assembly by Thursday, Council of Europe
delegates said.
Erakat will not meet Peres, who is due later Wednesday in the
Netherlands, where he will meet Prime Minister Wim Kok.
On Thursday Peres is to address a conference on the peace process at
Rotterdam's Erasmus university.
On Tuesday a lone Palestinian gunman opened fire at random in a crowded
Jerusalem street and wounded almost 40 people -- two of them fatally --
before being shot dead by police.
Earlier, Israeli troops had raided the West Bank town of Nablus,
killing four members of the radical Islamic movement Hamas and
triggering a riot in which another Palestinian man was shot dead by
Palestinian forces.
In response to the Nablus raid a coalition of Palestinian groups,
including the radical Islamic movement Hamas and Arafat's Fatah
faction, called for a "general mobilisation" against Israel.
