Korea-defect-Kim TOKYO: North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il hinted he could
accept the defection of top official Hwang Jang-Yop to the South by
saying "those who are coward, go if they want to go," according to
Pyongyang Radio quoted here by Jiji Press. France-Albright PARIS: US
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright sought to ease French
sensibilities over NATO but glossed over French demands that the
Alliance's southern command should go to a European officer. Zaire
GOMA, Zaire: Zairean warplanes bombed rebel-held eastern Zaire killing
nine people and injuring 37, the humanitarian organisation Medecins
sans Frontieres (MSF -- Doctors without Borders) said. Britain-politics
LONDON: The British government headed off an opposition Labour's House
of Commons bid to force an early general election by censuring
Agriculture Minister Douglas Hogg over his handling of the "mad cow"
beef crisis. NATO-CFE BRUSSELS: The United States, Canada and Europe
agreed on a NATO offer to Russia of a new "significant" reduction of
arms in Europe, diplomatic sources said. Cambodia-ASEAN PHNOM PENH:
Visiting Indonesian President Suharto reassured the Cambodian
government that Phnom Penh would be accepted for full membership in the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in July, a senior
Cambodian official said. Bangladesh-politics DHAKA: Bangladesh Prime
Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed sacked her housing and works minister
after he had residents of a Dhaka slum forcibly removed, ignoring
government policy, officials said. Spain-strike MADRID: Talks resumed
between striking Spanish truckers and the government amid reports of
renewed violence on the 11th day of the strike action. Russia-Chechnya
MOSCOW: The Chechen parliament pronounced the second round of voting in
general elections there valid despite the fact that fewer than half the
elegible voters turned out for them, the ITAR-TASS news agency
reported. Palestinian-Arafat CAIRO: Palestinian President Yasser Arafat
launched a stinging attack on Israel over alleged violations of the
Hebron accord and harassment of Moslems and Christians in Jerusalem.
US-Koreas WASHINGTON: The United States signaled its determination to
proceed with plans to send more food aid to North Korea amid heightened
tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula. afp
