UN upbeat on Angolan peace prospects with Savimbi in Zaire
Angolan rebel leader Jonas Savimbi has come out of the bush to visit
the Zairean town of Gbadolite, raising UN hopes of putting an end to 20
years of civil war.
UN special envoy to Angola Alouine Blondin Beye told AFP here that the
first foreign trip by the head of the armed opposition UNITA in three
years showed a "fundamental change of approach" on his part.
"Savimbi has come out of his logic of confinement," Blondin Beye said.
"The next step will be a meeting with President (Jose Eduardo) Dos
Santos" to press ahead with implementation of a peace pact signed last
November in the Zambian capital Lusaka.
Blondin Beye said that the date and location for the meeting -- the
first between the rival leaders since Angola plunged back into civil
war in October 1992 -- had already been decided on, but should remain
secret "until the two men are sitting face to face in the same room".
In Gbadolite, where Zairean President Mobutu Sese Seko generally
resides, Savimbi was not boiling with enthusiasm at the prospect of
meeting Dos Santos and has for the moment ruled out "going to the
others' place".
"I don't plan to be a tourist in Luanda," the Angolan capital, he said.
The conflict, which has cost more than 500,000 lives, resumed after the
National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) lost
general elections held under a first, May 1991 peace accord to the
ruling People's Liberation Movement of Angola (MPLA)
Savimbi said he was not behind the plan to meet Dos Santos and was
doing so at the behest of the international community.
"For a long time, president Savimbi lived in the bush, entirely cut off
from the world and surrounded by a pack of courtiers who concealed the
reality from him, telling hin each day that he was the biggest and the
strongest," one anonymous UN official said.
"But those days are over. Savimbi knows that he can never win the war,"
the official added. According to the United Nations, UNITA controls
only 15 percent of Angolan territory, as compared with 70 percent a
year ago. The movement has also lost almost all its outside support,
though it was once backed by the United States and apartheid South
Africa against the then Marxist regime in Luanda.
Blondin Beye said the Angolan government is "today in a position to
crush UNITA militarily", but the international community had stepped up
pressure on Luanda not to humiliate the rebel leader.
"Since November 22 (when a new ceasefire took effect), there has been
no fighting between the two sides", though at its height, the "Angolan
civil war was claiming more than a thousand lives a day," Blondin Beye
said.
Nevertheless, violations of the ceasefire have been reported by both
sides, threatening to delay the deployment in May of 7,000 peacekeeping
troops the UN Security Council has agreed to deploy to help monitor a
military and political settlement, under which UNITA would get a number
of government and administrative posts.
For Blondin Beye, "the first part of the process has been completed"
and the rival armies have pulled back from their front lines, where in
some places "they were only 50 metres (yards) apart".
"Logistical problems remain, notably of communication," the UN envoy
said. "But you don't end 20 years of war by blowing a whistle."
The UN troops are due to oversee the disarmament of some 60,000 UNITA
soldiers before a new, joint army is formed to replace the current MPLA
force of some 100,000 men.
The political aspect of the Lusaka protocol will only take effect after
the military side has been dealt with, Beye said.
Another problem is repairing the damage to the southern African nation
caused by the war. More than a third of some 10 million Angolans are
internally displaced or live in exile and the country is the most mined
in the world. UN officials believe there are more than 10 million mines
on its soil.
"If all goes well, the Angolan farmes will return to their fields in
two years time," Blondin Beye said.
