U.S. President Calls for New Round of Global Trade Talks 
In a bid to contain a rise of protectionism in the wake of the global
financial chaos, U.S. President Bill Clinton called for a new round of
global trade talks, which could be kicked off at the end of this year.
In the State of the Union address here Tuesday night, Clinton said that
the new round of talks would help expand exports of services, of
manufactures, and most of all, farm products, building a freer trade
system for the 21st century.
Clinton said that the United States will work with the International
Labor Organization on a new initiative to raise labor standards around
the world. And this year, "we will lead the international community to
conclude a treaty to ban abusive child labor everywhere in the world,"
he added.
Some U.S. officials hinted the new round of trade talks, which could be
called the Clinton Round, will be the key U.S. goal at a meeting of
trade ministers from more than 120 countries in December this year.
European and Japanese officials had been urging the U.S. to back a new,
comprehensive round of negotiations but the U.S. administration had
been debating internally just how broad those talks should be, fearing
a repeat of the impasse that plagued the last global trade talks.
Those negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round, because they were
launched in 1986 in Punta del Este, Uruguay, dragged on for seven years
as the participating countries could not reach agreement on all facets
of the talks.
While planning to push for comprehensive talks, the administration
wants a more limited range of negotiations than the Uruguay Round.
Among the areas it will seek to cover are industrial tariffs,
agriculture, services, intellectual property, labor rights and
environment.
The actual scope of the talks will be decided at discussions over the
next several months leading up to the December ministerial meeting.
While the site has not been selected, the six cities being considered
are Dallas, Denver, Detroit, San Diego, Seattle and Honolulu.
