Developing: _Japan-US Trade. Japan's trade minister sharply rejects
U.S. claims that the Japanese film market is closed and says Tuesday that
Tokyo would not negotiate under threats. Lead has moved, developments will
be expedited. With: US-Japan Trade. Lead expected by 0900 GMT.
_Britain-Major. Judgment day comes for the ruling Conservative Party _
stick with much-criticized Prime Minister John Major or dump him for icy
right-wing challenger John Redwood. Lead has moved. _South
Korea-Collapse. Prosecutors on Tuesday expand their investigation into the
deadly collapse of a shopping mall as workers stepped up the search for
bodies. Lead has moved. _Yugoslavia. Rebel Serbs keep up attacks on
U.N. convoys into Sarajevo as French peacekeepers try for a second day to
shut them down with a big gun they recently acquired. Has moved.  Upcoming:
_FEATURE-Macedonia-Balkan Limbo. Only the persistent whisper of air pumps
in the cavernous Zhelezarnitsa steel works hints that its giant machinery
is sleeping, and not dead. Expected by 0800 GMT.  _US-Space Docking. After
five days of whizzing around Earth under the flags of two nations, the
shuttle Atlantis and space station Mir have generated a bountiful supply of
good feelings. Expected by 0800 GMT.  _FEATURE-South Africa-National
Party. The party that administered apartheid for four decades is finding it
difficult to cope with stepping down to No. 2 in a black-led
government. Expected by 0900 GMT.  _Haiti-Justice. The first trial for a
political killing committed under the former army dictatorship has worried
human rights advocates, who say the sentence was much harsher than the law
allows. Expected by 0100 GMT. Also Moved: _US-China. Growing but still
inconclusive evidence exists that China may have supplied Pakistan with
medium-range missiles, a U.S. official said
Monday. _Italy-Berlusconi. Accusations of corporate corruption against
former Premier Silvio Berlusconi now rest with a judge who must decide
whether the media magnate should go to trial. _Japan-Helicopter Crash. A
Japanese antisubmarine helicopter crashed into Pacific waters off the
northern island of Hokkaido during pre-dawn training
Tuesday. _NIreland-Soldier. Rioting by IRA supporters in Northern Ireland
flared sporadically Tuesday over the release of a British soldier jailed
for killing a Belfast woman.  _France-Nuclear-Rainbow Warrior. A Greenpeace
ship set sail for Mururoa Atoll to protest France's decision to resume
nuclear testing in the South Pacific. _New Zealand-Earthquake. An
earthquake of 7.1 magnitude rattled the remote Kermadec Islands in the
South Pacific on Tuesday.
