News Analysis: Turkey's Presidential Hopefuls Face Contest
Leaders of Turkey's ruling tripartite coalition held a meeting on
Monday in a last-ditch attempt to reach a consensus on a presidential
candidate who may garner support from the opposition parties as well.
According to the election procedure, the deadline for presidential
nominations expires at midnight Tuesday and the presidential elections
should be completed by May 15.
As the three leaders entered their fourth meeting in three weeks on the
presidency, it is believed that they have a dim chance of reaching an
agreement on a joint candidate and it is much more probable that each
party will nominate its own candidate.
In this case, Speaker of the Grand National Assembly (parliament)
Yildirim Akbulut, who is expected to announce his candidacy on Tuesday,
will have an increased chance of becoming the next president.
Four names have been mentioned for presidential candidates so far. In
their last tripartite meeting, Democratic Left Party (DSP) leader and
Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit proposed DSP deputy and Foreign Minister
Ismail Cem or Professor Mehmet Haberal, dean of Baskent University, for
the presidency.
The Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) leader and Deputy Prime Minister
Develet Bahceli proposed MHP deputy and Defense Minister Sabahattin
Cakmakoglu or Professor Kamil Turan, dean of the Law School in Gazi
University.
Mesut Yilmaz, leader of the Motherland Party (ANAP), however, refrained
from naming candidates during the meeting and reserved the right of
making an assessment of the issue with the ANAP executives.
It was expected that other names may appear on the agenda of Monday's
meeting. After talking with his coalition partners, Ecevit will consult
the main opposition Virtue Party (FP) leader Recai Kutan and True Path
Party (DYP) leader Tansu Ciller.
During the past meetings, Ecevit asserted that none of the ruling
partners' leaders should be nominated as presidential candidates to
avoid potentially adverse impact on the stability of the coalition.
Neither Bahceli nor Yilmaz reacted to the statement, which was a clear
indication that Ecevit was not in favor of presidency for Yilmaz, who
has been eyeing for the position since the very beginning of his
joining in the coalition government as the junior partner.
The ANAP is still determined to nominate its leader as presidential
candidate. One ANAP executive member said that "if no agreement is
reached in the summit, we will nominate Yilmaz as our candidate."
He predicted that Yilmaz would be the most likely candidate to assume
office, adding that those candidates suggested by Ecevit and Bahceli
will not even be able to garner votes from their own parties.
He said that Akbulut, also from ANAP, is the only candidate capable of
challenging Yilmaz for presidency. The speaker has reportedly affirmed
to Yilmaz that he will run for presidency.
Due to the souring relations between Yilmaz and Akbulut, it is believed
that Akbulut will not hesitate to challenge Yilmaz for office, even if
Yilmaz is nominated as a presidential candidate by ANAP.
The majority of deputies, regardless of their party background, are
strongly against the nomination of a candidate from outside the
parliament, therefore they give practically no chance to either
Professor Haberal or Professor Turan.
Although numerous public polls showed that Cem is the favorite, he
lacks support in parliament. Following a briefing on foreign relations
last week in parliament, Cem received staunch criticism from FP and DYP
deputies as well as from ANAP deputy Kamran Inan, chairman of the
Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Commission.
Cem's biggest handicap is his being a member of a left-wing political
party in a parliament dominated by right-wing ideals. The coalition
partner MHP simply would not give the green light to Cem because he is
a leftist from ANAP.
For the same reason, it is believed that the opposition parties, the FP
and DYP, will also refrain from providing him any support. Under such
circumstances, it is expected that Cem will not receive support from
his own ANAP either.
Diplomatic circles here said that the MHP Defense Minister Cakmakoglu
might get some support from all the political parties other than the
DYP, though far from being adequate to carry him to the Presidential
Palace.
Other candidates, who officially nominated themselves for the
presidency, are DSP deputy Mail Buyukerman, ANAP deputy Agah Oktay
Guner and DSP deputy Oguz Aygun.
These candidates, who are devoid of any support and only came forward
to protest the attitude adopted by their leaders, have no chance of
winning the presidency at all, analysts said.
