Editorial: Don't Veto The Police Commission 
The New York Times said in an editorial on Thursday, Dec. 22:
Nearly everyone agrees that New York City needs an independent agency
to monitor police corruption. But the mayor and the City Council have
been unable to agree on what powers such a commission should have.
In a report last summer, the Mollen commission made the case for a
powerful independent agency to help root out corrupt cops. The need is
clear: repeated cycles of corruption over the decades have shown that
the Police Department itself is not up to the job.
The Council has passed a bill creating a strong agency, with
independent investigative and subpoena powers as recommended by the
Mollen panel. But aides say Mayor Rudolph Giuliani may veto the plan by
Friday and perhaps test it in court.
Instead of stonewalling, the Giuliani administration would do better to
compromise. There are a variety of ways to construct an independent
board without disrupting law enforcement, as the mayor fears would
happen under the Council's plan.
Council Speaker Peter Vallone engineered a bill that would create a
five-member Independent Police Investigation and Audit Board, with two
members appointed by the mayor, two by the Council and a chairman
approved by both the mayor and Council. The board's broad mandate would
include subpoena powers and the ability to mount its own investigations
from scratch.
Giuliani argues that so muscular a board would stumble into and disrupt
the existing anti-corruption efforts of the district attorneys and the
department's own Internal Affairs Division.
The city's five district attorneys have long shared these reservations
and restated them during hearings held at City Hall this week. The DAs
also said they had beefed up their corruption units since 1991.
The Council has reasonable responses to these concerns. Its bill
stipulates that the Police Department would remain ``the primary
authority'' for detecting and preventing corruption.
The bill also sets rules of cooperation among the Audit Board, the
police commissioner, the district attorneys and the Civilian Complaint
Review Board. Everyone recognizes that Giuliani's concerns are serious
and that they arise from his strong background as a prosecutor. But the
Council says it is open to further refinements.
Giuliani says that permitting the Council to appoint members to the
board would violate the city charter and usurp executive authority. He
prefers a board appointed by him. Compromise should be possible here.
The plan could be revised so that one branch of government proposed the
candidates, with the other accepting or rejecting them.
But the real sticking point is subpoena powers. The Giuliani
administration prefers a board mostly limited to oversight activities,
with subpoena powers that would be granted only in special
circumstances. This is one place the Council should not give ground. A
board that had to turn elsewhere for subpoena approval would be
toothless.
The administration's fears that the board would disrupt the law
enforcement community are out of proportion to the setup proposed in
the legislation. The Council has in mind a small enterprise, with a
staff of a dozen or so. Such a modest shop would not wreak havoc, but
it would have enough backbone to stand up to police and politicians if
necessary.
Giuliani should not veto the Council's plan out of hand. The plan could
be refined to protect the legitimate interests of law enforcement
agencies but guarantee what everyone knows is needed: a strong board
that can pursue police corruption when the first-line investigators
fail.
