China to Curb Corruption in Five Years: Expert 
An expert on anti-corruption said here Friday that the year 2000 saw
the execution of China's two high-ranking officials for corruption,
which demonstrated the country's resolution in eliminating the abuse of
official power.
Li Xueqin, a researcher with the Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection of the Chinese Communist Party of China (CPC) , told Xinhua
that "China is very much likely to control the rapid spread of
corruption in five years."
Cheng Kejie, former vice-chairman of the Standing Committee of the
Ninth National People's Congress, and Hu Changqing, former deputy
governor of Jiangxi Province in east China, were both executed last
year and many more were penalized.
Li noted that "The severe crackdowns will have a forceful deterrence
impact, official activities are being controlled by more and more
regulations, and the surge of corruption will be put under control."
The rise of corruption cases is the result of the social transformation
from a planned economy to a market economy, which started more than 20
years ago and will last another 20 years.
During the first 20 years, corruption spreads and even gets rampant in
certain fields.
"Crackdown on corruption of high-ranking officials is telling people
that even a state leader will lose his head once found guilty for
serious corruption," he said.
The researcher explained that since the central government launched an
anti-corruption campaign in 1993, regulation of officials has made
initial progress.
By setting up clear principles specifically on entertainment, housing,
transportation and traveling of officials, the government has generally
put under control the main problems underlying corruption.
Li said that addressing the source in preventing and curbing corruption
is taking effect, as corruption cases in the fields of building
construction, finance and government procurement have been decreasing.
Cases in recent years involving cadres have been reduced, in comparison
with the worst period from 1992 to 1996. Other policies have also
gained considerable success including forbidding administrative and
military organs to engage in commercial activities, breaking ties
between administration and their subsidiary enterprises and further
regulating the fiscal system on administrative fees and fines.
The reform process that China will take in the following five years
deals with the economic and political systems, he said.
The reform will transform the governmental functions and lessen its
administrative power in the economic field; and boost the political
system reform and enhance political consultation, democratic
supervision and participation in the running of state affairs.
Li Xueqin said that with the development of the market economy in
China, officials will have few chances to abuse power and conduct
"money for power" practices. In the meantime, laws and regulations on
anti-corruption have also been reinforced.
