Angolan Govt Asks U.N. to Save Peace Process 
The Angolan government issued a statement Tuesday, blaming the
international community for the recent armed conflicts in central
Angola.
Meanwhile, it called on the United Nations Security Council to take up
firmer stand against the opposition National Union for the Total
Independence of Angola (UNITA) to save the peace process from the
crisis.
The statement, approved by the Standing Committee of Angola'
Ministerial Meeting, accused UNITA of refusing to comply with relevant
terms stipulated in the Lusaka Protocol and of engaging in building its
army and purchasing large number of advanced weapons from abroad.
However, it said, the U.N. observer mission turned a blind eye to this
situation and paid no attention to the government report in this regard
which leads to the re-arm of UNITA and putting the southern African
country on the brink of an all-out civil war.
The statement appreciated the position taken by the Southern African
Development Community which had announced UNITA Chairman Jonas Savimbi
as a "war criminal" and that talks with the patriotic UNITA Renovation
Committee is the only way to end the peace process.
The Angolan government urged the U.N. to accept the stand and give up
its illusions on Savimbi in a bid to achieve real and lasting peace in
the war-torn country.
Moreover, the government called on the army, national police and all
peace-loving people to be mobilized and destroy Savimbi's war machines.
Since mid-November, the government army clashed heatedly with UNITA
forces in central Huambo and Bie provinces. The former rebel movement
which had been equipped with tanks, armored carriers, long-range
cannons and ground-to-air missiles forced the government army to
retreat in defeat several times and have to hold on to the two capital
cities of Huambo and Kuito.
UNITA's powerful war facilities have been a surprise to the government
which in turn voiced its dissatisfaction with the inefficient
supervision of the U.N. mission.
Angola's Deputy Foreign Minister Joao Miranda said earlier that the
government is considering the withdrawal of U.N. observers mission from
the country.
