Nomadic Mongolians Enjoy Modern Life 
Descendants of a nomadic ethnic group who are used to living on
horseback, the Mongolian people, now are settling down and benefiting
from the development of a modern economy.
With the implementation of a contracting system, tens of thousands of
modern family pastures have sprung up in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region, and the herdsmen are better off than ever.
Nada Muqin is one such herdsman who has contracted about 10,000 mu
(about 666.7 hectares) of grassland and breeds more than 2,000 head of
livestock.
Bidding farewell to the nomadic life and settling down in the 1970s,
Nada's family is enjoying an annual income of over 200,000 yuan now,
and their five-room house is richly furnished with all the modern
conveniences.
About 95 percent of the herdsmen on the Inner Mongolia Prairie have now
abandoned the traditional Mongolian yurt homes for their own wood and
brick houses. And about 80 percent of Mongolian herdsmen are working as
farmers, businessmen and industrial workers nowadays.
While Inner Mongolia was incapable of producing even matches and nails
50 years ago, it has developed its own metallurgy, machinery,petroleum,
electronics, textile, sugar, food and garment industries during the
past 50 years.
Some Mongolians have also become shrewd business people who are engaged
in cross-border trade or have started their own businesses.
Nayen Toya, who has been a herdswoman for more than a decade, got
together with a dozen other women and started a clothing plant
producing garments with Mongolian characteristics. Their products are
not only on sale in domestic markets nowadays, they are also exported
to countries including Mongolia, Russia, and Japan.
After a half century of regional autonomy and economic development,
Mongolian people, once a nationality with an illiteracy rate of 90
percent, have their own team of technological talents.
Application of advanced technologies has enabled the region to develop
its own fine breeds of livestock, and the average annual income of the
region's herdsmen to grow by wide margins in the past decade.
In spite of the great progress they have achieved in the past 50 years,
Mongolian people are not content. "The next thing we aim to do is to
learn from developed parts of the world and develop animal husbandry in
the direction of intensive, mechanized, and modernized livestock
farming." This is the newest ambition of the modern herdsman on the
Mongolian Prairie.
