Annan Asks African Leaders to Honor Peace Accord on Congo (K) 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan Monday asked the African leaders,
whose countries are involved in the conflict of the Democratic Republic
of Congo, to reach consensus on the issue and translate the consensus
into action to bring peace into the central African country.
"Your challenge is to reach consensus with each other, and transform
the consensus into action," Annan said at the open Security Council
debate on the situation of Congo (K), formerly known as Zaire.
"This will lay the groundwork for progress on your own," he said. "Just
as important, it will offer a convincing argument in favor of the
international support that Africa merits and which can help bring about
a decisive change for the better."
The open debate, chaired by U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright
whose country holds the presidency of the Security Council for the
month of January, has drawn presidents and foreign ministers from 10
African countries.
Presidents of Zambia, Mozambique, Congo (K), Angola, Zimbabwe, Uganda
and Rwanda are among 40 speakers at the debate, at which Salim Ahamed
Salim, the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity, is
also expected to speak.
"It is remarkable to see so many African leaders gathered in this
chamber," Annan said. "You have traveled long distance in an effort to
resolve a conflict that has brought so much suffering to so many people
for so long. the political distance still to be traveled is even
greater."
"The peace process is fragile," he said. "Leadership can strengthen it.
Millions of civilians are suffering grievously. Leadership can inspire
them and give them hope."
"The United Nations is here to help," he said. "But the United Nations
has also had bitter experience of help gone wrong."
"The United Nations, for its part, has been active involved in the
search for a peaceful solution since the start of the conflict, " he
said, voicing his support for the effort by African leaders to bring
peace to the central African country.
"If the United Nations is to make the right kind of difference in the
DRC, and avoid the wrong turns that have led to tragedies elsewhere, we
must be ready not only to act, but act in a way that is commensurate
with the gravity of this situation," he said.
"Whether that means intense political engagement, a sustainable
commitment of resources, or decisive action in the face of unforeseen
circumstances, we must see this involvement through," he said. "At the
same time, we must guard against creating inflated expectations of what
can be realistically expected from the United Nations."
The extraordinary Security Council session, to be followed by "
mini-summit" Tuesday, came as the 15-nation Security Council is
considering a peacekeeping force for the vast central African country.
The civil war involves some 10,000 troops from Zimbabwe, Angola and
Namibia supporting President Laurent Kabila of Congo (K) fight against
rebels backed by Uganda and Rwanda.
Annan proposed last week the deployment of more than 5,000 peacekeeping
force to protect 500 unarmed U.N. military observers, of which only 79
have been deployed.
