Canada Puts Trade Before Human Rights 
Canadian Foreign Minister Andre Ouellet has said trade should take
precedence regardless of a country's record on human rights.
The best way to promote democratic development is through developing
trade irrespective of a government that does not espouse Canadians'
beliefs, Ouellet told reporters Thursday after he met with ASEAN
foreign ministers for pre-G-7 consultations in Vancouver.
The Canadian newspaper "Globe and Mail" said, Ouellet's remarks show
Canada severed the link between human rights and trade in its foreign
policy.
Ouellet said foreign trade, which creates progress in the economy, is
the best way of spreading democracy to the population. Isolation,
contrary to some beliefs, is not conducive to helping the populations,
he said.
"Therefore, Canada has expressed, through this new (Liberal)
government, our desire to vigorously pursue a series of (trading)
initiatives in a number of countries irrespective of their human rights
records," the minister said.
Ouellet said there might be a bit different approach by Canada but the
Canadian government has the same policy as the ASEAN countries on
Maynmar, formerly known as Burman. The ASEAN countries hold views that
they will build trade links with Myanmar regardless of some West
countries' harsh criticism of Myanmar on its human rights.
Ouellet held consultations with his ASEAN counterparts from May 9 to 11
in Vancouver as part of a Canadian offer to serve as a voice for the
Asian nations inside the group of Seven industrial nations as a way of
developing its closer ties and building its trade links with those
countries. The G-7 countries will hold a summit meeting in the Canadian
city of Halifax next month.
The ASEAN countries are becoming increasingly important in
international affairs and are a key market of the future, Ouellet said
before the meeting. "The purpose of the Vancouver meeting is to
exchange views on a wide range of political and economic issues of
mutual interest in advance of the Halifax summit."
The six ASEAN countries are Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. Two-way trade between Canada and
ASEAN totaled 5.9 billion Canadian dollars (about 4.3 billion U.S.
dollars) last year.
