A powerful predawn earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.2 slammed
western Japan on Tuesday, reportedly killing at least 10 people and leaving
hundreds trapped in the rubble of collapsed buildings. The earthquake was
believed the most powerful in at least two decades to strike a densely
populated urban area in Japan. Dozens of people were reported injured, and
the quake sparked fires throughout the city of Kobe, a city of 1.4 million
people that is one of Japan's largest ports. Kobe is about 450 kilometers
(280 miles) west of the capital, where the quake was barely felt. GROZNY,
Russia -- Russia's prime minister called for immediate peace talks over the
breakaway republic of Chechnya on Monday, while the Russian military
offensive to take the shattered Chechen capital stalled again. ``The future
of Russia, our future, depends on resolving the crisis in Chechnya,'' Prime
Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin said Monday night in a 15-minute address on
national television. He called for negotiations ``with all interested
parties and forces'' and a simultaneous cease-fire. Both sides have
appealed for negotiations before, but Chernomyrdin's 15-minute speech was
one of the strongest statements yet by Moscow's political
leaders. SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina -- Bosnia's three-week truce was
shakier than ever Monday with intensified fighting in the northwest and a
stalemate over easing the siege of Sarajevo. Serbs fired more than 110
mortar and artillery shells Monday on two towns in the Bihac pocket of
northwestern Bosnia, U.N. officials reported. Serb shelling of the same
area killed seven civilians during the weekend. The shelling was in
retaliation for an offensive by the government army, which retook some
territory west of Bihac town near the border with Serb-held Croatia,
U.N. officials said. PORT MORESBY, Papua New Guinea -- Uncowed by an
assassination plot in the Philippines, Pope John Paul II greeted his flock
here Monday from an open pickup truck that shielded him only from the
sun. Police on this South Pacific island, meanwhile, were playing down
rumors of a threat to the pontiff. But they clearly were concerned about
the whereabouts of two Iranian carpet salesmen who disappeared right before
he arrived. Papua New Guinea is the second stop on an 11-day papal tour
burdened by concerns over security and the 74-year-old pope's
health. WARSAW, Poland -- Poland's government accused Jewish groups Monday
of ``distorting facts'' and reviving anti-Polish sentiments in a
controversy over ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of Auschwitz's
liberation. At the core of the conflict is disagreement over plans for the
observances at the former Nazi death camp on Jan. 26-27, 50 years after it
was liberated by Soviet troops.  Maurice Goldstein, head of the
International Auschwitz Committee representing some 10,000 survivors,
accused Poland of bungling the plans and failing to give the observances a
sufficiently Jewish character.
