GROZNY, Russia  (BC-AP News Summary,0553) Russian
warplanes launched air strikes on the outskirts of the Chechen capital
after a Kremlin deadline for the separatists to disarm expired. The
ITAR-Tass news agency said that Russian fighters targeted military
equipment and five bridges across the Terek river that divides the
Chechen republic. The operation began at 10 a.m. (0700 GMT), the agency
said. Sergei Butin, spokesman for Nikolai Yegorov, the minister for
ethnic affairs, as saying there were no air strikes against Grozny
itself, the agency said. Earlier, Russian fighters buzzed the Chechen
capital and artillery salvos boomed northwest of the city shortly after
a Kremlin deadline for the separatists to disarm expired at midnight.
ZAGREB, Croatia  -- Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter arrived
Sunday in this former Yugoslav republic on a controversial mission to
persuade Bosnian Serbs to accept a peace plan they repeatedly have
rejected. Carter undertook his trip as government troops withdrew from
a key northwest Bosnian town, Velika Kladusa, that had been under
attack for weeks by Serbs and renegade Muslims. Bosnian army officials
in Sarajevo said defenders had managed to pull out of the surrounded
town, and that there were no civilians loyal to the government left
there. The Bosnian capital Sarajevo was expecting a visit by Carter
later in the day. SEOUL, South Korea  -- North Korea on Sunday
stonewalled U.S. requests for word on two American Army airmen 24 hours
after their small, unarmed helicopter crossed into the communist
country's airspace. North Korea instead accused the United States of
staging a major air war exercise against it jointly with South Korea
near the front lines. The North's official Korean Central News Agency,
monitored in Seoul, said 560 U.S. and South Korean fighter planes
joined in the exercise Thursday and Friday. Jim Coles, a U.S. military
spokesman in Seoul, dismissed the North Korean accusations as
propaganda, calling them ``spurious untruths.'' WASHINGTON  -- The
bullets that pelted the White House grounds might have been the result
of a drive-by shooting. One bullet was found on the president's back
porch and another reportedly pierced a window. President Clinton slept
through the latest incident, which occurred just after 2 a.m. EST (700
GMT), when shots were fired from the direction of the grassy Ellipse
south of the White House. Investigators found four 9mm bullets
apparently shot from the same gun, but did not catch the person who
fired them. The Washington Post, quoting unidentified sources, said one
bullet penetrated a window of the State Dining Room on the first floor.
SEOUL, South Korea  -- North Korea's mysterious leader Kim Jong Il
suffers from a chronic kidney ailment that prevents him from formally
taking the helm of the communist country, a published report said
Sunday. More than five months have elapsed since Kim's father, longtime
ruler Kim Il Sung, died at age 82. But the younger Kim, groomed as
heir-apparent for decades, still has not assumed full power of the
reclusive country, fanning rumors of ill health and political dissent.
