Northridge Powers Way Past Middleboro, Mass., In World Series
Every day brings a new tale about Matt Cassel, Northridge, Calif.,
Little League's version of the Little Rascal.
He's 12 going on 10. His calling in life is to have fun and never
experience stress. So after Northridge lost for the first time in 18
postseason games on Monday, Cassel didn't pout. He danced in his dorm
room as his depressed teammates looked on in bewilderment.
``He's a psycho, but he gets everybody going and is a good team
player,'' third baseman Gregg Wallis said. ``He's never worried.''
Cassel provided a spark his teammates desperately needed Tuesday,
hitting a three-run home run in the third inning of Northridge's 6-4
victory over U.S. East champion Middleboro, Mass., before a
sun-drenched crowd of 10,000 at the Little League World Series.
Pitcher Peter Tuber struck out 13 and Justin Gentile broke out of a
hitting slump with a home run to help Northridge even its World Series
record at 1-1 in the four-team U.S. bracket.
Northridge, the U.S. West champion, needs a win today over U.S. South
champion Springfield, Va. (2-0) to have a chance to play in Thursday's
U.S. final. Central champion Brooklyn Center, Minn. (1-1) faces
Middleboro (0-2) in the other U.S. game today. The two top teams
advance. If a three-way tie develops, the first team will be the team
that allowed the fewest runs and the other team will be determined by
head-to-head competition.
By now, those following Northridge have come to expect a flurry of
reports about the latest Cassel escapade. During the West Regional, he
was stung by a bee, cut his finger lifting a bunk bed and was beaned on
the helmet by a fastball.
At the World Series, he has been relatively injury-free but his
plotting never ends. He tried to hitch a ride on the back of a golf
cart carrying Northridge's baseball equipment. He runs through the team
showers with his eyes closed. Coach George Saul asked Cassel to move
his mattress into the hallway, closer to Saul's dorm room, just to
better keep track of him.
``I'm having a blast,'' Cassel said while chewing bubble gum and
signing autographs.
Northridge manager Larry Baca said Cassel, a first baseman, is
perfectly suited for the tension of baseball competition.
``I think that's why he can hit. He's relaxed,'' Baca said.
Added catcher Matt Cunningham: ``He's not the type of guy to get
nervous. He doesn't care what happens. I think that should be the
attitude of all the players. He's got one of the best work ethics on
the team and he's going to go a long way.''
Cassel's three-run homer gave Northridge a 4-0 lead after three
innings. But Middleboro rallied for three runs in the fourth on four
consecutive hits off Tuber, including back-to-back doubles by identical
twins Kevin and Brandon Brower.
Gentile's home run in the fourth and a run-scoring single by Wallis in
the fifth provided some breathing room for Tuber, who struck out five
straight batters in one stretch between the first and third innings.
``He mixed his pitches just right,'' Baca said. ``They were guessing
there for a while.''
Brandon Brower took the loss, giving up six runs and five hits in five
innings. He also hit three batters.
Northridge seemed to respond well after its first postseason defeat,
with Cassel leading the way.
``I just didn't feel that bad,'' Cassel said. ``I felt bad about the
loss, but we made it here and I knew we could win.''
Cassel had the entire afternoon off Tuesday, and Northridge supporters
were keeping their fingers crossed.
``I haven't gotten hurt -- yet,'' Cassel said.
In international games Tuesday, Maracaibo, Venezuela improved to 2-0
with a 4-1 win over Taiwan, and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, defeated Glace
Bay, Nova Scotia, 6-3.
