Six hour siege ends after Bosnian Serb police released
A six hour siege of a UN police station in a Serb-held town ended late
Thursday after the release of Bosnian Serb police detained by NATO
peacekeepers for an attack on a Moslem village.
A team of UN police (IPTF) officers were taken to a NATO base by their
commander, Commissioner Peter Fitzgerald, just before midnight (2200
GMT) after spending six hours barricaded in their headquarters against
an angry Serb mob in Zvornik, eastern Bosnia.
Fitzgerald, accompanied by the Bosnian Serb interior minister Dragan
Kijac, arrived to free the men, five police officers and one
international civilian official, around 11.00 p.m (2100 GMT).
A member of the UN team based in Zvornik contacted by phone from
Sarajevo said he and his colleagues felt vulnerable as the crowd grew
more and more drunk. "We have got no protection," he said.
Lieutenant Colonel Max Marriner, an IFOR official, said the building
was under surveillance by helicopters and unmanned aerial reconnaisance
vehicles -- pilotless aircraft -- throughout the crisis.
The crowd of Serbs had surrounded the building and upturned and
destroyed several UN vehicles earlier on Thursday in reaction to the
detention of 65 Bosnian Serb policemen by peace Implementation Force
(IFOR) troops.
A UN official inside the besieged office in Zvornik contacted by phone
and who did not give his name said "one car was blown up and others set
on fire."
The Bosnian Serb police were detained after violence flared at a
village some kilometers (miles) northwest of Zvornik, where Moslems had
returned to rebuild their shattered pre-war homes.
The decision to release the men was taken after the IFOR ground
commander, Lieutenant General Sir Michael Walker arrived in the
village.
"IFOR has relased all the police. Several weapons were confiscated.
Three AK-47 assault rifles, one CS greande, 26 pistols, one rifle and
two hand grenades," Major Tom Moyer, an IFOR spokesman said.
Ten Moslems were injured in the clash in the village of Mahala near
Bosnia's internal boundary line (IEBL), one of them seriously. None
however suffered gunshot wounds and the injured appeared only to have
been beaten, UN officials said.
Walker, the spokesman added, had gone to Banja Luka with the weapons to
meet acting Bosnian Serb president Biljana Plavsic. "The situation is
calm. The other will hopefully be calm soon," he added referring to the
situation in Zvornik.
The two incidents are the worst outbreaks of violence since refugees
clashed in May when Moslems tried to return to their former homes in
Serb-held areas across Bosnia's internal boundary.
It also comes less than two weeks before Bosnia goes to the polls for
post-war elections. On the September 14 polling day, thousands of
Moslems are expected to cross the IEBL, a mass movement that could
spark similar incidents.
The Serb police were held for much of the day in two separate areas
surrounded by US IFOR troops. However, this did not stop local Moslems
pelting the police with stones, UN officials said.
NATO and IPTF officials linked the two incidents stating that the
besieging of the UN police station was in retaliation for the detention
of the Serb police.
The Serb police had surrounded Mahala at dawn Thursday just three days
after a group of around two dozen Bosnian Moslems from the village,
mainly elderly and middle-aged people, returned to their burnt-out
former homes there, a NATO official said.
Shots were fired and UN police went to the scene, calling in nearby
NATO troops, a UN official told AFP.
