British POW to be released by Afghan Shiite faction
A British national held prisoner in south Kabul for the past eight
months by a Shiite mujahedeen faction will be released soon, a visiting
British diplomat told journalists Thursday.
Nobody, including the British authorities were even aware that Eden
Fernandez, 28, who was seized by the Shiite Hezb-i-Wahdat faction in
May 1994 and accused of military espionage, was missing until Wahdat
presented him to Kabul-based journalists last Monday.
A special appointment for visiting British diplomat Stephen Evans to
meet Wahdat leader Abdul Ali Mazari was arranged by local journalists
Thursday.
"Mazari agreed to release Fernandez into my custody this Saturday
morning," said Evans, Counsellor for Economic and Commercial Aid, who
is based in Islamabad.
Fernandez, a printer by trade from St.Ives in south England, first came
to Afghanistan during the Jihad (Holy War) against the Russians, when
he fought alongside the mujahedeen and later converted to Islam.
"Mazari said he was releasing Fernandez as a humanitarian gesture,"
added Evans.
Evans is part of a five-member British diplomatic delegation visiting
Kabul on a fact-finding mission which includes talks with leaders from
all the Afghan factions who have been fighting each other for supreme
power ever since the April 1992 mujahedeen victory in Kabul.
"We discussed the political situation of Afghanistan at length and I
confirmed British government support for UN special envoy Mahmaud
Mestiri's peace mission," Evans told journalists.
Mestiri has been trying to bring the warring factions together to
arrange an interim authority to take power from incumbent President
Burhanuddin Rabbani, whose two-year term of office expired 28 December,
1994.
Agreement in principle has been reached between the factions but the
peace process is stumbling on points of detail, and leaders accuse each
other of continued acts of bad faith.
Meanwhile a United Nations convoy of 37 trucks carrying food-aid
arrived in Kabul late Wednesday after being stopped and partially
looted in an area controlled by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i-Islami
faction.
Seven trucks were plundered 70 kilometres (42 miles) east of Kabul in
the district centre Sarobi, but after UN staff negotiated with
Hekmatyar and local Hezb-i-Islami commanders the wheat-flour was
apparently returned and the convoy carried on to Kabul.
A UN official in the capital said the wheat sacks were being unloaded
and counted to determine if any were still missing.
Another relief convoy, 15 trucks of the International Committee of the
Red Cross (ICRC), carrying mixed food-aid to a depot in an area under
Hekmatyar's control southeast of the capital also arrived safely
Wednesday.
Although no official ceasefire has been declared in Kabul there was
continued calm Thursday, but civilian traffic was sparse due to a light
overnight snowfall.
