Legal action against Swiss minister for anti-Semitism: press 
A former Swiss deputy was reported Sunday to have brought legal action
against Economics Minister Jean-Pascal Delamuraz for alleged breaches
of laws on racism and anti-Semitism in his comments on aid for victims
of the Holocaust.
The Swiss press said that Jacques Marseiller, former liberal deputy for
Basel, had based his action on the alleged anti-Semitism behind
Delamuraz's comments.
Judicial sources have not confirmed that Marseiller has brought legal
action, nor given any indication what legal steps may next be taken.
The Geneva Tribune published an interview with Delamuraz in late
December in which he said Jewish groups' request for a Swiss fund for
Holocaust survivors' was "blackmail" in order to get a "ransom."
The interim fund request by the New York-based World Jewish Congress
(WJC) was made out of concern that many of the elderly Holocaust
survivors might not live to see the conclusion of a Swiss panel's
inquiry into Jewish World War II-era assets that disappeared in Swiss
banks.
Jewish organisations threatened a boycott of Swiss banks if Delamuraz
did not apologise, and the WJC had given the government four weeks to
distance itself from his comments.
The row was patched up however when Delamuraz apologized to WJC
president Edgar Bronfman in a letter dated Tuesday, saying that the
information on which he based his declarations was "imprecise."
In a press briefing Wednesday, Delamuraz further apologized to Bronfman
for hurting his feelings and those of many others in the Jewish
community. "I assure you that was not my intention."
Bronfman said in response: "I look forward to returning to constructive
work together with the Swiss authorities and the Swiss banks, to
resolve outstanding questions which will further our goals of truth and
justice."
Jewish organizations have estimated at more than seven billion dollars
assets owned by victims of the Holocaust and not reclaimed from Swiss
banks. Swiss banks estimate the funds at 32 million dollars.
