US House Speaker warns against underestimating North Korea's danger 
US House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich said on Tuesday in
Tokyo North Korea was in "great pain" and warned no one should
"underestimate the North Korean danger."
"North Korea might do something militarily," he told a meeting of the
National Press Club of Japan. The North Korean government is
"remarkably hidden."
Gingrich did not challenge Vice President Al Gore's earlier remark that
North Korea was collapsing. "I will not overestimate the speed of
collapse nor underestimate the North Korean danger," he said.
The Republican leader supported the US Democrats policy toward
Pyongyang.
"Efforts to expand some contact with the North Korean government is
probably a right, general direction."
"You have to be kind," he said. "Clearly the regime is in great pain,"
he said, noting the United States was closely monitoring assistance
goods such as fuel oil sent to the reclusive Stalinist nation.
Gingrich toned down earlier remarks that the United States would defend
Taiwan if China attacks it, saying his country would continue to stick
to its "One-China policy".
Noting Chinese leaders told him they would not resort to military force
easily, Gingrich said: "So, we wouldn't have to defend."
Gingrich told Wang Daohan, the last of four Chinese officials he met
over the weekend and an advisor to President Jiang Zemin, the United
States was committed to defending Taiwan if China attacks the island,
which Beijing regards an integral part of China.
"Last year, we moved aircraft carriers to Taiwan, but I think it was
not sent in a provocative way," he said.
Gingrich said Washington abided by the 1972 Shanghai declaration, by
which Washington has recognised China's claim over Taiwan.
But he noted: "Taiwan is a question of great concern ... We favor
One-China policy with voluntary discussions (between China and
Taiwan)."
He said he was "very honored" to be able to visit Beijing and Taipei on
the same trip. Referring to his earlier visit to Hong Kong, he said: "I
visited one China two times."
"That's the way we should view," he said. "I regard it perfectly
natural as an American to visit a country with which we have very
powerful, close relations and visit all of the key areas around the
country."
Gingrich who has been on a three-day official visit to China will leave
Japan for Taiwan on Wednesday.
