Israeli, Palestinian Negotiators Hold Secret Talks on Jerusalem: Radio 
The Israeli and Palestinian negotiation teams for the so-called
back-channel talks had been holding "private conversations" in the past
few days on the status of Jerusalem, Israel's Army Radio reported.
The teams, led respectively by Israeli Public Security Minister Shlomo
Ben-Ami and Palestinian Legislative Council Speaker Ahmed Qurei, had
reached an initial agreement on the Israeli troops' withdrawal from two
more villages near Jerusalem, according to the report.
Both villages -- Beit Hanina, which is under Israeli security and
Palestinian civilian control, and Shuafat, which is under sole Israeli
control -- lie north of Jerusalem and south of the West Bank city of
Ramallah.
Israeli cabinet and Knesset (parliament), under the push of Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Barak, approved the transfer of three Arab
villages, Abu Dis, Azariya, and Swahara, on the outskirts of Jerusalem
to the Palestinians full control last month.
But the handover had been shelved because of the bloody clashes in
mid-May between Israeli soldiers and Palestinian demonstrators who
urged Israel to release more Palestinian security prisoners.
The fate of Jerusalem, as well as the return of Palestinian refugees,
the status of Jewish settlements, water, border and security, are the
most thorny final-status issues on the negotiation table between Israel
and the Palestinians.
Israel claims Jerusalem as its "eternal and undivided capital," while
the Palestinians want at least the Arab East Jerusalem to be the
capital for its future independent state.
A statement issued by Barak's office after Sunday's cabinet meeting
claimed that the prime minister had ordered Israeli negotiators not to
discuss the Jerusalem issue with their Palestinian counterparts in any
talks.
It is not clear so far whether the "private conversations" between
Ben-Ami and Qurei, who had cooperated in talks in the Swedish capital
of Stockholm in the past few months, had got specific or tacit approval
by Barak.
The two negotiation teams are scheduled to go to Washington on Monday
and resumed their talks there on a framework deal to pave the way for
an agreement on the final-status issues by September 13.
In a related development, Jerusalem's top Muslim leader Mufti Ikrima
Sabri said Thursday that he would not accept any Israeli- Palestinian
peace treaty if it did not make East Jerusalem the capital of a
Palestinian state.
"(There will be) no solution without Jerusalem being the capital of the
Palestinian state," Sabri stated.
