President Bush economic stimulus package a sure way for schools not to meet
AYP
Instructor, musician and satirist, King David wants to thank President
Bush for an economic stimulus package that promises to drive the final
nail into the coffin and insure that pubic school systems across the
country will not meet AYP, or Adequate Yearly Progress.
Recently, the president has been in the news proposing an economic
stimulus package that would be "a shot in the arm" for a plummeting
American economy and would give every tax payer $800.00 extra dollars
in their pocket to put back into the economy.
"But Americans are in over their heads with McMansion mortgages they
cannot afford and the average American credit card debt is $6,000,"
said David. "How would $800.00 help? Might get them through the next
mortgage payment, or tempt them to buy a new car, but then what?"
Chief economist, Mack "the blister" Donalds said that what the
president is counting on is the American consumer, after cashing their
$800.00 check, running off to Wal-Mart or The Dollar Tree and buying a
bunch of worthless, plastic shit made for almost nothing in another
country for gullible and addicted American consumers, or some
inexpensive technology surrogate to fill the void that needs all kinds
of expensive components to run.
Since President Bushes well-intended, but conspicuously lacking, One
Child Left Behind 2001 Elementary and Secondary Education Act, public
schools receiving any type of federal funding would be responsible for
showing yearly progress on end-of-grade examinations to continue being
funded under Title I.
"But this is impossible," said the beleaguered satirist who has
first-hand experience in the public school system. "I'm not just
blowing second-hand smoke here. Some kids, no matter how hard they
work, are never going to do well on a standardized test. Their minds
just don't work that way. Research demonstrates this point quite
clearly."
Besides, how many professionals do you know have to take
multiple-choice, standardized tests to prove proficiency in their
occupation? Some maybe, but most of what qualifies a person to work a
certain job is learned on that job. That, and the ability to operate
vending machines.
"Ok, now we're going to take the New York City sanitation department's
standardized test for garbage collectors. Take out your pencils and
answer sheets. Question one."
Furthermore, the tenacious satirist insists that if you take away all
the federal funding, then some children can't eat.
"What are they going to do swallow air until their bellies feel full
and fart it all out on some multiple choice examination later on?" he
asked.
What the satirist was referring to is the Child Nutrition Act, a
separate piece of federal legislation which pays for school lunch
programs and cannot function without money.
But of course the president would probably rather have a few children
die off just so they wouldn't provide an extra strain for the remaining
"strong."
Federal funding makes up about 10% of every school system in the
country.
