Britain's far-right hoping to profit from Le Pen success
In the former mill town of Oldham, northwest England, the scene of violent
racial unrest last year, the far-right British National Party (BNP) hopes
the recent success of France's Jean-Marie Le Pen will help it win seats in
May local elections.
"Le Pen's success can help us," says Mick Treacy, 40, the party's local
leader. "It will give confidence to people, show them that the
far-right can be elected," he told AFP at the party's Oldham
headquarters, which doubles as the candidate's flat.
Far-right firebrand Le Pen stunned France by winning 17 percent of the
popular vote in Sunday's first round of presidential voting, ousting
Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin from the race and setting up a
May 5 run-off vote against incumbent Jacques Chirac.
In British general elections last year, the BNP pocketed 13.6 percent
of the vote in Oldham, north of Manchester. The result, its biggest
ever success, followed the worst race riots in the country in 15 years,
as white and Asian youths clashed for a number of nights.
Poverty and social deprivation were blamed for the unrest in a region.
At the local elections, the BNP is running for five local seats in
Oldham. It currently 2.
"Everything goes to the ethnic minorities," she says. "It's a bad time
to be British. To work in elderly care, you need to talk Punjabi."
Emphasising the mistrust whites and Asians have for each other, jMSm
ueline Davey, a mother of four, says: "At school, whites go through the
back door, Pakistanis go through the front door."
In such areas it is hard to find anyone who says they will vote for
Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party or the Liberal Democrats,
Britain's third main party. Many others plan not to vote at all.
"There is no point in voting," says Boryn Owen, a 36-year-old mother,
whose husband earns his living by carrying out odd jobs.
"Nothing is being done. It is our world, but the Pakis buy our shops,
our council houses. We don't get a chance to get a shop," she adds.
Since the September 11 attacks on the United States, the BNP has
increasingly attacked Islam, though it no longer calls for the
expulsion of foreigners as it did ahead of last June's general
elections.
There are 22,000 Asians in Oldham, including many Muslims, although
they form the minority in an overall population of 225,000.
While not calling for forced repatriation, the party is promising an
end to immigration and financial benefits paid to ethnic minorities and
refugees, should it be elected.
It is also placing heavy emphasis on crime in its electioneering,
calling for more police officers, a policy of zero tolerance and the
imposition of corporal punishment on vandals and delinquents.
The decline of Britain's manufacturing industry in the 1970s and 1980s
hit Oldham hard.
Thirty years ago, the town's Glodwick estate, scene of last year's
worst violence, was a haven for Caribbean immigrants in search of a
better life. They worked shifts in the cotton mills and other hard
manual jobs which whites were reluctant to take.
From the early 1970s they were joined by waves of Bangladeshis and
Pakistanis.
As Britain's heavy industries went to the wall, they and many of their
white working-class counterparts found themselves unemployed and
unwanted.
One current resident on the estate, Mohamed Waseem, called the BNP "a
major threat". "Electoral success for the party will lead to more
violence," he warned.
