Pope Celebrates 400 Years of Christianity in Philippines 
Pope John Paul II on Saturday celebrated 400 years of Christianity in
Asia's Catholic bastion as police searched for about 20 Muslim
extremists believed plotting to disrupt his visit.
Vatican sources said the 74-year-old pontiff would also broadcast a
message to the 1.2 billion people of China, whose government has
refused to allow Catholics to acknowledge papal supremacy for four
decades.
In a sign that the church was mending a 44-year-old rift with Beijing,
the Vatican has welcomed to the pope's Asian tour the first Catholic
delegates from Communist China to attend a papal event.
Saturday was to be the busiest day of the pope's five-day visit to the
Philippines, which began Thursday. Following the morning Mass, he was
to meet with Filipino bishops, attend the 25th anniversary of the
Catholic radio station and visit young people during an evening vigil.
During the ceremonies for Radio Veritas, the pope is expected to
broadcast a message to China. The pope is anxious to mend the rifts
with Beijing and visit China in the twilight of his papacy.
In China, where worship is banned except in state-sponsored churches,
allegiance to the pope has been forbidden since the Communists broke
ties with the Vatican shortly after seizing power in 1949.
The Vatican estimates, however, that 5 million to 8 million Catholics
there remain loyal to the pontiff.
Two separate groups of Chinese, 24 people from the state-sponsored
Chinese Patriotic Association and an unannounced number from the
so-called underground church loyal to the pope, have arrived in Manila,
papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro said Friday.
``They are welcome as Catholics,'' Navarro said of the state-sponsored
group, which ordains its own clergy. ``The Vatican is anxious not to
politicize their presence.''
Christianity remains a minority religion in Asia, the world's most
populous continent, except in the Philippines, where about 85 percent
of the 66 million people profess Catholicism.
Huge crowds have cheered the pontiff at all his public appearances
here. The outpouring has severely taxed security, which has been tight
during the visit.
On Friday, U.S. and Philippine officials said two people had been
arrested and about 20 others were being sought in what was believed to
be a plot by Muslim extremists to carry out terrorist attacks during
the papal visit.
The apparent conspiracy was uncovered Jan. 6 when police raided an
apartment near the residence of the Vatican ambassador, where the pope
is staying.
They seized bomb-making materials but the suspected leader, a
26-year-old Kuwaiti-born electronics expert, eluded arrest, Manila
newspapers report.
After the raid, Philippine authorities warned of possible attacks on
U.S. commercial airliners over the Pacific. The State Department
confirmed receiving the alert.
The pope appeared Saturday morning at a makeshift altar at the
Philippine International Convention Center alongside Manila Bay for a
Mass celebrating 400 years of Christianity in the Philippines.
Limping, the pontiff had to be assisted up the stairs of the outdoor
altar.
President Fidel Ramos, a Protestant, joined thousands of Filipinos,
including 4,000 representatives from the Archdiocese of Cebu, where
Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan held the first Mass in this
country in 1521 during history's first round-the-world voyage.
In his homily, the pope paid tribute to early Catholic missionaries,
especially those who sought to protect Filipinos against abuse.
He also expressed solidarity with Filipino victims of natural
disasters, including the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo that killed
more than 700 people and left tens of thousands homeless.
``I ask God to strengthen and comfort those who have lost their loved
ones, their homes, their livelihood, and I earnestly hope that their
appeals for further help and solidarity will not go unheard.''
Despite the heat, John Paul, who has been ill the past two years,
appeared to be holding up well during his visit.
``He's feeling good and slept well,'' Navarro said Friday.
John Paul leaves Monday for Papua New Guinea as part of an 11-day Asian
pilgrimage which will also take him to Australia and Papua New Guinea.
