Norwegian Divers Reach Sunken Russian Sub, Check Flooding 
Norwegian divers have descended to the sunken Russian nuclear submarine
"Kursk" and are tapping along the hull to establish which compartments
have been flooded, Russian media reported Sunday.
All previous efforts to rescue the 118 crew aboard the vessel have
failed and Russian officials said Saturday that most of the submariners
probably died minutes after the Kursk went down to the Barents Sea
floor on August 12. Any survivors may already be dead by now.
"Most possibly, we will have to admit that our worst expectations have
materialized," Vice Admiral Mikhail Motsak, chief of the Northern
Fleet, told a special program on RTR television Saturday in the
starkest statement so far.
According to Russian reports, the divers would try to manually unscrew
a lid leading to the sub's escape chamber. Pressure- measuring devices
located inside the hatch would give the rescue team an idea about
conditions inside the Kursk.
Pressure within the vessel must be low enough to provide for survival.
The divers would also assess chances for the British mini-submarine to
latch on to the damaged escape hatch.
There is still no final word on what caused the accident, but Motsak,
the chief of the Northern Fleet, said there were three possible
versions.
The first is a powerful dynamic blow that may have occurred on
collision with another object.
Motsak said three foreign submarines were spotted in the accident zone,
which is an area under constant observation by foreign intelligence
services.
He said the Kursk's collision detonated three or four torpedoes,
resulting in a blast equivalent to 1-2 ton of TNT.
The second is an explosion inside the submarine with subsequent
flooding of the sub's first and second compartments.
And the third possible cause is that the Kursk hit a World War II mine,
the admiral said. The final suggestion should not be completely
discarded since six such mines have been discovered in that part of the
Barents Sea over the last few years, he added.
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Ilya Klebanov, who heads a government
commission probing the causes of the accident, said the crewmembers in
the first, second and possibly several subsequent compartments of the
submarine died instantly when the Kursk struck the seabed Saturday.
However, Klebanov said that there is still a chance that some sailors
may still be alive in the eighth and ninth sections, but that this
chance is more of a theoretical nature, Interfax reported.
