JERUSALEM Israeli acting Foreign Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami Thursday said that
Israel did not rule out a partial peace deal with the Palestinians that
excludes a solution on the most difficult issue of the fate of
Jerusalem. In an interview with Israel Radio, the dovish minister said for
the first time that Israel never rejected such a proposal. But such a deal
would depend on a clause in which the Palestinians will declare the end of
the conflict with the Jews, he added. The Jerusalem issue is the bottleneck
in the Palestinian-Israeli peace process and it had been the deal-breaker
at July Camp David summit between Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak,
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and United States President Bill
Clinton. (Israel-Palestinian-Deal) - - - - JERUSALEM -- Israel and the
Palestinian National Authority have signed an agreement for the
construction of a seaport in the Palestinian self-rule Gaza Strip, Israeli
Prime Minister's Office announced Thursday afternoon.  The agreement was
signed by Israeli negotiator Oded Eran and his Palestinian counterpart Saeb
Erekat during their talks Wednesday night, according to the
statement. Israel had already agreed in principle to the construction of
the seaport in the Sharm el Sheikh Memorandum signed by Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat one year
ago. (Israel-Gaza Seaport) - - - - BAGHDAD -- Iraq reached a tax cut
agreement with Egypt and Libya recently to promote its trade relations with
the two Arab countries, local media reported on Thursday. Hameed Shukur
Mahmoud, director general of the Iraqi Customs Committee, said that it has
been agreed to cut 40 percent of the taxes levied on imported goods among
the three Arab countries.  Such a move is expected to promote the trade
volume among the three countries by a large margin and help improve the
humanitarian situation of Iraq, the report said. (Iraq-Egypt-Libya) - - - -
TEHRAN -- President Mohammad Khatami stressed here on Thursday that Iran is
determined to build its defense, scientific and economic might in order to
safeguard and maintain peace. "We have not sought war, nor do we intend to
do it now," Khatami said at a parade of the armed forces to mark the
outbreak of the 1980-1988 war against Iraq. Iran is now defending peace in
the world based on its foreign policy of detente, he said. But he pointed
out that Iran must try to strengthen its military, scientific and economic
power in order to realize peace and safeguard it. (Iran-War Anniversary) -
- - - BEIRUT -- Lebanese President Emile Lahoud said on Thursday that
Syria's military presence in Lebanon "is legal and temporary." National
News Agency (NNA) reported. "The Syrian existence accords with Lebanon's
strategic interest because the Israeli enemy refuses the just and
comprehensive peace and they are trying to settle Palestinian refugees in
Lebanon," the president added. Syrian, Lebanon's main power broker,
stations about 35,000 troops in the country and influences almost every
major decision made by Beirut.  (Lebanon-Syria)
