The Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics warned college
presidents Tuesday against backsliding on academic standards for
college players.
Ending two days of meetings here, the national commission urged college
officials to stand firm behind the NCAA's stiffer eligibility
requirements for freshmen athletes for implementation in 1995.
Opponents of the tougher requirements, including some coaches, have
said some poor and minority athletes could be denied a chance at a
college education because of the new rules.
The new standards, called Proposition 16, would require incoming
athletes to have had at least a 2.5 grade point average in 13 high
school core subjects in order to participate in sports during their
freshman years. Under the current Proposition 48, a 2.0 overall grade
point average is required. Both propositions require a combined score
of at least 700 on the Scholastic Assessment Test.
``The Knight Commission has unbounded faith that all young athletes
will rise, including African-American athletes, to meet the challenge
of higher standards,'' said Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, commission co-chair
and president emeritus of the University of Notre Dame.
The NCAA will discuss the new requirements at its convention in January
in San Diego. The Knight Commission has no official role at the
convention, but five of its members are college presidents with NCAA
votes.
``I'm convinced that if we set a higher standard, you don't have to
worry,'' said Leroy Walker, a Knight commissioner and president of the
U.S. Olympic Committee. If players can ``run, shoot and guard,'' he
said, they can also study and meet the tougher academic requirements.
``It is unfortunate that this entire debate has encouraged the idea
that access to higher education for minority Americans depends on
athletic scholarships, said Hesburgh. He noted that only ``1.2 percent
of 1.2 million African-American undergraduates depend on athletic
scholarships to support their education.''
The Commission reported that there are more African-American student
athletes are participating in college sports today than before 1982,
when Proposition 48 went into effect.
``I don't want it to sound like a black and white issue,'' said
Hesburgh. ``It is about athletes.''
Funded by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, the Knight
Commission was established in 1990. After meeting with coaches, college
presidents, athletes, athletic directors, and others involved in
college sports, it issued a 1991 report urging reforms. Coca-Cola
president Donald Keough and former Heisman Trophy winner Dick Kazmaier
are current members.
The Commission also joined the NCAA in supporting the concept of
partial qualifiers. Under those guidelines, players would be admitted
to college but prohibited from competition in their freshmen year and
restricted to only three years of eligibility.
