World community wants second term for Ramos: Canadian 
Visiting Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Wednesday the
international community wants Philippine President Fidel Ramos to stay
on for a second term after 1998.
"I would like to tell you that the world community will be disappointed
that you cannot run again because you are gaining a lot of respect
around the world and we all admire you for your courage and work,"
Chretien said in a public speech here.
The remarks by Chretien, who was visibly impressed by the Philippines'
economic turnaround, largely credited to Ramos, was not included in his
prepared speech and drew thunderous applause from Canadian and Filipino
businessmen who were the main audience.
Instead of ending his speech as written, the Canadian leader said he
wished to express a "political comment" which he thought was "shared by
a lot of Canadians and the world community."
He repeatedly praised Ramos' leadership during the Philippines' hosting
of the most recent Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum
summit in November. Canada is host to this year's summit.
The Philippine constitution, ratified in 1987, limits the presidency to
a single six-year term in an effort to erase memories of late president
Ferdinand Marcos' 20-year authoritarian rule ended by a popular
uprising in 1986.
Ramos' term expires in 1998, although some supporters have started a
drive to gather millions of signatures to change the constitution and
allow him a second shot at the presidency.
The Philippine president on Wednesday thanked Chretien for his remarks.
"But I reminded him (Chretien) that while that (second term) may be
constitutional in Canada, it is unconstitutional in the Philippines,"
Ramos said in his weekly news conference.
"I have a firm stand (of not running again) and it will not change," he
added.
Chretien said "the world is taking notice" of the changes in the
Philippines -- whose gross national product is expected to top seven
percent in 1996 from near-zero growth in 1992 when Ramos took over.
The Canadian leader is in Manila on the second leg of a three-nation
Asian tour. He has already visited South Korea and will leave for
Bangkok on Thursday after a three-day official visit.
