Once again, Fox Sports is changing the rules. Now, the game is
Wimbledon.
Television rights to the jewel of tennis tournaments would not, under
ordinary circumstances, be the object of rampant price speculation and
wide-eyed bidding. Tennis ratings are mostly down. Equipment sales are
faltering. There are only a few stars, most notably Andre Agassi, who
blend athletic and entertainment skills.
But Fox wants Wimbledon, so the All England Club will get much more
than what NBC ($15 million) and HBO ($6 million) have been paying
annually. Although ABC met yesterday with All England officials, the
rights fracas is expected to be Fox versus NBC/HBO. CBS figures to be
out of it.
David Evans, the president of Fox TV, and Anne Sweeney, the chairman of
fX, Fox's new cable network, had a getting-to-know-you meeting and
presentation in London Tuesday with Wimbledon officials and Mark
McCormack, president of the International Management Group, which
represents the club in the talks.
Evans and Sweeney vowed to heavily promote Wimbledon not only on Fox,
but on Rupert Murdoch's other television properties: fX, the Sky Sports
satellite service in the United Kingdom and the Star satellite service
in Asia, where tennis is growing apace.
Sky would co-exist in Britain with the BBC, which would retain the best
matches, and Star would be the satellite complement to other domestic
broadcast rights-holders in Asia.
Fox insists it made no bid at the meeting. In such meetings, there may
be a wink-and-a-nod about how high a network is willing to pay, or at
least an acknowledgment that it is willing to pay more than the
incumbents. So did they or didn't they bid? It may be semantics.
``We made a presentation, but dollar figures were not discussed,'' said
Vince Wladika, a Fox Sports spokeseman.
Details of an alleged $120 million, four-year Fox bid have leaked, a
strategy that may be designed to force NBC's bid upward and test NBC's
true desire to retain a property with a higher built-in loss.
``I'm surprised to read so much about this in the papers,'' said Dick
Ebersol, the president of NBC Sports, who declined further discussion
of his bid or of his meeting with McCormack Friday in New York City.
Whatever the dollars are, part of Fox's plan is this: While its U.S.
offer will likely be less than NBC and HBO's combined bid, Wimbledon
will get an extra jolt of cash from rights to fast-growing Sky and
Star.
In fact, about 50 percent of whatever Murdoch's minions bid will be
ascribed to Sky and Star, about 45 percent to Fox and fX.
Fox expects to return for more formal bidding within three weeks.
If Fox wins, it could offer major advertisers opportunities in
Murdoch's farflung global properties, from TV Guide and Mirabella
magazines, to The Times of London and the New York Post, as well as
Fox, fX, Sky and Star.
NBC and HBO will make offers Friday in New York. Each made separate
bids during an exclusive 60-day negotiating period that ended on Oct.
1, but neither was compelled to make its best offer then, knowing
Wimbledon wanted to see the color of Fox's money.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
In the past 10 months, because of Fox's network-building agenda, it has
spent $1.58 billion for National Football Conference rights and $155
million for the National Hockey League, the richest one-network deals
either sport has ever had. It also covets the TV rights to major-league
baseball and the 2000 Summer Olympics.
Whether NBC, which has lost money on its Wimbledon deal, will play to
the hilt with Fox is uncertain. Wimbledon is the best of tennis
tournaments, a network showcase and a venue for comfortable business
entertainment for General Electric, NBC's parent company (but not quite
the business match for Paris during the French Open, which NBC recently
renewed).
To beat NBC, Fox's offer must exceed NBC's by 15 percent; Wimbledon is
not likely to switch allegiances for a dollar more. You can't sweep
Wimbledon off its feet for a mere extra buck and a Murdoch family
boomerang.
All England executives are known to be pleased with HBO's handling of
tennis and with HBO's commercial-free format. But HBO's 20 million
subscribers will eventually be topped by fX's in several years. Will
Wimbledon opt for HBO's class or fX's basic-cable allure?
``This is going to be a complicated poker game,'' said Seth Abraham,
the president of Time Warner Sports, the owner of HBO. ``The club knows
that. But the club also knows we don't have an unlimited checkbook.''
But with ratings down 20 percent from 1993 on HBO, why the apparent
hunger to renew the two-week event? ``HBO doesn't have many sports
franchises,'' Abraham said. ``We have boxing, tennis and sports
documentaries. After boxing, tennis is our most important franchise.
You fight very hard to hold onto a franchise. It's like the Alamo. You
fight to the last stand.''
