Formal portraits of the pope in full ceremonial attire, miter and cross in
hand, were used the backdrop for posters hawking soft drinks and beer.
Hundreds of souvenir salesmen were offering T-shirts and calendars,
keychains and even boxes of sweets, all emblazoned with some sort of
papal likeness.
The pope is a far cry from the robust 58-year-old Polish cardinal who
was chosen to head the church 17 years ago. He has never recovered
fully from a May 13, 1981 assassination attempt. A viral infection,
probably contracted during one of numerous blood transfusions, makes
his left hand tremble, sometimes violently.
And he is still being treated for a benign intestinal tumor for which
he underwent surgery in July 1992. The pope also dislocated a shoulder
in 1993.
The pope began looking extremely frail after he broke his thigh
slipping in his bathroom in April 1994. He has abandoned the practice
of kneeling down and kissing the ground on arrival in a new country but
instead a bowl containing the local soil is held up for him to kiss.
Pope John Paul II was also forced to cut short his traditional
Christmas blessing last year, but doctors later said he only had
influenza and soon recovered.
Part of the pontiff's mission in Guatemala is to reinforce the
influence of his church in a country where evangelical Protestant
missionaries have made dramatic inroads in the past 25 years.
A hefty 25-30 percent of Guatemalans now have turned away from the
Church of Rome and joined evangelical Protestant groups, most of them
US-based.
Sixty-five percent of Guatemalans identify themselves as Roman
Catholics, although Catholic ritual here has been heavily influenced by
pre-Colombian rites.
In addition to the 10-day trip to Central America and Venezuela, John
Paul II's 1996 travel schedule includes trips to Germany, France and
Slovenia.
Now on his 69th foreign pontifical tour, the pope is to travel to
Nicaragua Wednesday, El Salvador Thursday and spend the final three
days of his trip in Venezuela before returning to Rome.
