Bigger Would Be Better
We can all agree on this:
If CNS -- the company that produces Breathe Rights, the external nasal
dilators that are growing in popularity -- wants me as a customer, it
had better expand its product.
Yeah, I went out and got one. You know, one of those Band-Aid-looking
things all the NFL players have been wearing over their noses. They are
called Breathe Rights.
My Breathe Right doesn't quite fit, though. I have one of those
straight-from-the-Motherland noses, the kind that spreads so far across
your face it looks more like the state of Texas than Florida.
The Breathe Rights come in only two sizes: small and medium. CNS is
insensitive to nostrilly challenged people. I'm considering litigation.
Anyway, Chiefs defensive end Neil Smith, as most of you know, has been
wearing tape over his nose for three years. He first did it for a
broken nose but now does it mostly for good luck and out of tradition.
Now some doctor -- Dr. Dan Cohen, to be exact -- is selling a souped-up
version, Breathe Right, that is supposed to improve your breathing.
Oxygen-starved pro football players appear to be Cohen's most loyal
consumers.
Since Smith arguably was the first football player to wear a Breathe
Right, I figured it was only fitting that I start the craze among
sports columnists.
Cohen's Breathe Right doesn't do much for sportswriters. Although I
must admit that while wearing my Breathe Right I didn't get nearly as
winded searching for my remote control as I normally do.
But it's not surprising athletes think Breathe Rights help them.
``We had an idea it might work for athletes, too,'' said Cohen from his
office in Chanhassen, Minn., a suburb of Minneapolis. ``But it is
intended for people with colds or allergies who have trouble breathing
through their noses, especially at night when they're trying to
sleep.''
A Breathe Right has three different strips that are supposed to pinch
the bridge of the nose and pull open nasal passages.
According to Cohen, a clinical study showed a 31-percent reduction in
nasal airway resistance in people using the Breathe Right. A
sleep-disorder research center in Cincinnati concluded that Breathe
Rights lead to less snoring, better sleep and freer breathing.
Cohen, 42, is not only the CEO and spokesman for CNS, he's also Breathe
Right's longest customer. Cohen, bothered by chronic allergies, has
been using the product for three years. Breathe Rights became available
in drug stores three months ago.
Cohen considers Philadelphia Eagles running back Herschel Walker the
first NFL player to sport a Breathe Right. Since then a plethora of NFL
players have joined Walker, including, it seems, nearly every player in
the playoffs.
``We're trying to capitalize off the free advertising,'' said Cohen,
who has been inundated with interview requests from both print and
broadcast journalists.
``We're hoping that as time goes on people will realize this is a
product intended to help snorers and people with colds and allergies.''
Not that Cohen is bothered by its use among athletes. There have been
preliminary discussions, he said, about San Francisco 49ers receiver
Jerry Rice appearing in Breathe Right TV commercials.
``Jerry Rice has sinus nasal congestion,'' Cohen said.
``We're most interested in having an athlete who can bring out the
medical aspect of its use.''
I'm interested in a blanket-sized Breathe Right.
