UN issues guidelines on protecting refugees from sexual violence 
The United Nations, in a gesture to mark International Women's Day on
Tuesday released guidelines for aid workers to prevent and respond to
sexual violence against refugees.
"Sexual violence against refugees is widespread," UN High Commissioner
for Refugees Sadako Ogata said, calling it a "global outrage."
"In every case, the physical and psychological trauma that results can
only add to the pain of displacement and the bitterness of exile," she
added in a report issued a day before International Women's Day.
The report said unaccompanied women and lone female heads of households
represent a sizeable number of the world's 23 million refugees and have
a disproportionately high risk of being subjected to sexual violence,
both during flight and while in exile.
The 73-page guideline report is based on recommendations from field
workers in UNHCR camps around the world, particularly those experienced
with rape and piracy attacks on Vietnamese boat people and the rape of
Somalia refugees in Kenya and Bosnians in the former Yugoslavia.
It urges field workers to take basic preventive measures to minimize
the risk of refugees' exposure to attack.
These include locating latrines close to living quarters, making
separate, secure accomodation available to lone women and girls, and
promoting the distribution of food rations through women, rather than
through men, who it says may use their power over supplies to coerce
women into having sex.
The document also proposed what it called down-to-earth suggestings for
responding to attacks. It urges that rape victims be given new
clothing, but not from uniform fabrics bought in bulk that might mark
the bearers as having been raped.
It suggests basic techniques for interviewing victims, stressing
avoidance of excessive probing, which it says can retraumatize rape
victims. The guidelines also point out that numb responses "may
indicate deep shock rather than indifference."
In cases where sexual violence has resulted in pregnancy, field workers
are urged to inform the victim of all options available, including
abortion, regardless of the aid workers' individual beliefs. In
countries where abortion is illegal, the woman should be informed of
the prohibition, the guidelines say.
