I hate a specific demographic
Hey gang. I got some serious backlash from my hipster column, so I
though I should be fair and take some swipes at their sworn enemies,
the yuppies. Right off the bat, let's be clear about some things. A
yuppie is a Young Urban Professional, so before you go off saying
"Chris, get out of the 80's," please recognize that yuppies have been
around for as long as youth, cities, and professions, which is to say
forever. They continue to infect our cities, and will do so for as long
as legacy status remains a sufficient Ivy League qualification and
conspicuous spending remains an efficient mating strategy. Which is to
say, again, forever. Yuppies will outlive the cockroaches. So lets make
fun of them:
1. When yuppies dance, both of their feet remain FIRMLY planted to
spots on the floor. It is as if the yuppie thinks a high-voltage
current is passing through him, and if he lifts his foot, he will
suffer a fatal discharge. Fatal. That is how serious yuppies take
this foot rule.
2. Yuppies will only discuss cars by their number, never by make. They
will toss around numbers like LS450 and 3-series, and if they do
not immediately see a flash of recognition in your eyes, they will
just assume that you have a micropenis.
3. Yuppies have a peculiar talent whereby, within the first six
minutes of meeting you, they can divert the discussion towards
details of their life that they hope will impress you. This
typically involves letting you know that they had a college
scholarship or played a varsity sport. But the particular details
are inconsequential. It is the conversational acrobatics that
yuppies employ to impart these details to you that are so
impressive. For instance, yuppy males absolutely love to alert you
that they have a great girlfriend, and they might do so thusly:
Me: Hi, nice to meet you, I'm Christopher Walken.
Yuppy: Walken? My girlfriend loves walking! She walks everywh...
(shotgun blast)
4. Yuppies know the names of all the tall buildings in the city, and
if you attend a rooftop party, they will not hesitate to take an
hour out of your night to educate you. They will be sure to speak
very loudly so that all the other yuppies around are aware of their
skyscraper nomenclature mastery.
5. There are no real-life yuppies as cool as Patrick Bateman. He is a
golden god.
Patrick Bateman
Image courtesy of imdb.com
6. Yuppies like to go slumming in the Lower East Side, because it is
the only part of Manhattan that is "still real." YEAH, BECAUSE YOU
MOUTHBREATHERS RUINED THE REST OF IT.
7. Yuppies do not have actual conversations with one another. The
simply wait for their turn to regurgitate something that TV told
them earlier. If you regularly interact with yuppies, you can
recognize this phenomenon and take advantage of it. When you are
trying to talk to one of these robots, you will notice their eyes
glaze over as they recite their upcoming line over and over in
their head. It is at this moment that you should say something
absolutely absurd, just to see if you can slip it by. For instance:
Yuppy: You catch that Cowboys game this weekend?
Me: Yes, I saw parts of it.
Yuppy: Did you see T.O. crying afterwards? What a PUSSY!
Me: Indeed.
Yuppy: You think he was faking it? I think he was faking it.
Me: Well, tough to tell. I mean, he is a complex person...
Yuppy: (glaze)
Me: ...additionally, I heard he has a small vestigial tail, and if
you lick it, you acquire the magical power to intuit a person's most
ticklish spot, simply by sniffing them...
Yuppy: (pause)
Yuppy: Romo should've focused on the playoffs, not on that tramp
Jessica Simpson.
Ok, I think that's it for now. Rest assured that the vanities remain in
flames. Feel free to add your own nuggets of yuppie anthropology.
Until the next episode of I Hate A Specific Demographic...
