Family prepares to immerse Gandhi's ashes in the Ganges
The ashes of Mahatma Gandhi were due to be immersed in the holy Ganges
river Thursday almost 50 years after his death, but the late leader's
final pilgrimage has so far failed to attract large crowds, witnesses
said.
But as relatives prepared for the ritual immersion, Tushar Gandhi, the
great grandson of the former independence campaigner known as the
"father of the nation", said he was not disappointed with the turnout.
"What I want to do is to revive the ideas of Mahatma Gandhi and I hope
I succeed," he said.
"It is not a political rally where numbers count. I would be gratified
even if one person came to pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi sincerely.
"I do believe he still has a great appeal among our countrymen."
Gandhi's ashes were shared out among the Indian states for immersion in
the country's rivers after his murder in 1948 at the hand of a Hindu
fanatic.
Part of the ashes sent to Orissa were deposited in a bank vault in the
eastern city of Cuttack, then forgotten.
Tushar Gandhi, who reclaimed them earlier this month after a two-year
legal battle, was to immerse them at the meeting point of the Ganges
and Yamuna holy rivers in the presence of Prime Minister H.D. Deve
Gowda. Four wooden jetties draped with flowers have been built for the
event.
When the ashes arrived by train in a flower-bedecked carriage on
Wednesday, around 2,000 of Allahabad's 800,000 population turned up at
the station for a frenzied welcome.
But officials said only around 70 to 100 people appeared at each
station along the way from Cuttack to Allahabad to pay homage during
the 550-kilometre (340-mile) trip.
Meanwhile, people came in ones and twos here on Thursday when the urn
containing the ashes was put on display in a canopy outside a
government guesthouse.
Security was tight, with visitors passing through metal detectors
before being frisked by police and paramilitary officers.
Many of the visitors were young.
Pradeet Pripathi, a medical student who made a 200-kilometre (180-mile
trip from Lucknow, said: "Mahatma Gandhi was the only genuine mass
leader India has produced. I regret I never saw him alive."
But Prem Chandra, 68, who had seen Mahatma Gandhi three times during
his lifetime and had been in Allahabad in 1948 when his ashes were
brought to the city after his death, said: "At that time the station
was overflowing with people.
"People don't have faith in Gandhi anymore. People seem to dislike
politics. He was a great man."
More people, however, were expected to attend the ritual immersion
later Thursday, since 100,000 pilgrims are already in Allahabad for a
Hindu festival.
