EU Adopts Possible Measures Against US Anti-Cuban Law 
The European Union (EU) foreign ministers announced today a series of
possible retaliatory measures against the United States if it goes
ahead with further plans to penalize foreign companies doing business
with Cuba.
Speaking in Brussels during a EU Foreign Ministers Council meeting, EC
Trade Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said, "The EU has the right to
defend itself against unfair legislations."
The EU measures have been drawn up on the eve of US President Bill
Clinton's expected announcement on whether to waive a part of the
anti-Cuba trade law, the so-called Helms-Burton Act.
These measures include taking the matter to a World Trade Organization
dispute settlement panel, introducing legislation to allow EU companies
counter-sue when their affiliates are prosecuted, establishing a watch
list of US companies filing court actions against EU companies, and
requiring visas for US businessmen visiting EU states.
The EU council also instructed its Permanent Representatives Committee
to make necessary preparations for urgent Community and coordinated
national action.
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind was quoted by Reuter as
saying that the 15 EU members were also considering individual
responses to the act.
The part of the Helms-Burton Act most offensive to the EU, as well as
Washington's neighboring trade partners Canada and Mexico, will allow
Americans to sue in U.S. courts foreign companies deemed to have
profited from investments in property confiscated by Havana.
Rifkind said that even if Clinton did waive the third part of the act,
the EU would still consider what action to take over the so-called
Title IV, which has already become law.
This part allows the U.S. State Department to prohibit entry to the
United States to business executives linked to companies profiting from
Cuban investments.
The EU says it is already playing its part in isolating Cuba, pointing
to ministers' refusal to ratify a trade pact in June because it did not
give enough consideration to democracy and human rights.
"The EU ministers are well aware of the strong domestic pressure on
President Clinton as November's presidential election approaches, but
their threat of retaliatory measures is a clear indication that the EU
is not willing to tolerate if its interests have been obstructed by US
domestic concerns," a EU diplomat said.
