Sporadic shooting in Monrovia's diplomatic enclave
Sporadic shooting between rival rebel groups broke out Saturday morning
in Monrovia's diplomatic enclave of Mamba Point, where fighters also
executed and elderly man.
Ghanaian authorities meanwhile boarded and inspected a damaged Nigerian
freighter carrying some 3,500 refugees fleeing Liberia's factional
fighting, aid officials said.
During a firefight between gunmen of Charles Taylor's National
Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) and fighters of the Krahn ethnic
group, the NPFL captured two Liberian men in their sixties and tied
their elbows behind their backs, a reliable witness who asked not to be
identified told AFP.
This method of restraint usually preceeded an execution, he added.
One of the men was released, but the second was dragged around a
corner, from where a shot was heard.
Subsequent investigation revealed the man's corpse, lying face down, a
bullet entry wound clearly visible in his back.
The gunfight began around 11:00 a.m. (1100 GMT) and lasted less than 30
minutes.
A senior NPFL commander in the Mamba Point district denied any
knowledge of the killing. "It's not true. It's all lies. Nobody died,"
he said.
Both sides in this conflict have executed captured members of opposed
factions.
The rest of the city was reported to be relatively calm.
But the tens of thousands of displaced people in Monrovia do not yet
feel safe enough to leave makeshift camps to see what may be left of
their homes a month after security broke down in the capital.
The population of Greystone, formerly a residential compound for US
diplomats, is as large as ever, with estimates of the number living
there ranging from 20,000 to 30,000.
Health workers in Greystone say conditions there, although far from
ideal, have improved.
Clean water is now being pumped in, thanks to efforts made by the aid
agency Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) and US
officials.
Latrines are also under construction, which should prevent health
problems related to poor sanitation.
"When I first came here last month, there were not even shelters. Now
there is much more plastic sheeting," said Terje Paulsen, a Norwegian
coordinating the work of the International Federation of Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies in Liberia.
"There is also much more to buy here," he said pointing to the hundreds
of stalls lining the compound's pathways selling a huge variety of
goods, including food, cooking materials, medecine and many luxury
items, the result of widespread looting that has accompanied the
factional fighting.
Most patients who go to the only clinic in Greystone are victims of
wounds from gunshots or rocket explosions, and as result medical staff
are very short of dressings, iodine, antiseptic and surgical equipment.
Although no distinction is made between civilians and combatants, the
majority of gunshot victims are thought to be factional fighters.
There are over 300 suspected cases of cholera in the compound,
according to Red Cross coordinator Morris Dukuly.
One of three suspect samples sent to Paris for verification was found
to carry cholera bacteria.
The disease killed two people on Saturday and one the day before.
The fatalities were buried Saturday morning just outside Greystone's
perimeter wall.
Many victims wait until severe symtoms of the disease appear, making
treatment more difficult, said Dukuly, adding that loudspeakers were
now being used to educate residents.
The humanitarian aid organisation Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF)
meanwhile said a Ghanaian vessel approached the Nigerian freighter Bulk
Challenger early Saturday, but it was not clear whether the vessel had
coast guards or police on board.
In Accra, capital of Ghana, Deputy Foreign Minister Mohamed Chambas
said he had advised the captain of the refugee-laden ship to return tot
Monrovia, where peacekeepers were waiting to help the stricken vessel
and its passengers.
The ship began taking in water shortly after leaving Monrovia Sunday,
but steamed straight past the Ivorian capital Abidjan headed for Ghana.
Aid officials have expressed concern over the health and safety
conditions on board the ship.
Passengers paid 75 dollars each for a boarding pass on the Bulk
Challenger in an exodus sparked by the renewed factional fighting in
Liberia. Their exact number and identities are not known.
