Lacroix returns to his roots
Christian Lacroix went back to his roots with his summer ready-to-wear
show on Sunday.
The collection glowed with the hot pinks and mimosa yellows of his
native Provence.
It was a return to the distinctive touches which became his hallmark
when he opened the house back in 1987 -- his clever way with patchwork,
his penchant for toreador jackets and his reworkings of the traditional
costume of Arles, which he remembered from Sundays in his childhood.
Many of these elements have rather dropped out of sight in recent
collections.
He opened with 1970s nostalgia, wide pants and blazers, mixing checks
and floral prints, alternating panels of horizontal and vertical
stripes, and embroidering arabesques and provencal motifs down sleeves
or across the yokes of jackets.
Bucking the current trend towards the simple, pared down and unadorned
look, his daywear was a riot of colour, in unashamedly luxurious
fabrics like damask and satin, overlaid with lace or threaded with
lurex.
Evening sheaths had rhinestone zips or giant glittering jewel buttons
in the plunging neckline.
There were several takes on the Arlesienne, with giant shawl collars in
white crepe georgette and stiff skirts standing out almost horizontally
from the waist. One version in ivory faille was covered entirely with a
delicate top layer of black lace. In another the shawl collar was
reduced to a wisp of black chiffon.
Lacroix' way with lace has become a signature of the house. For next
season he has used it to trim the spiral flounces of cocktail frocks,
to insert trains into the back of evening gowns or turned it into
little cap sleeves on otherwise plain satin sheaths.
In total contrast, a second Lacroix show this week promises to be just
as much of an occasion: the designer is launching his own line of
jeans.
"Fashion is not a museum," he insists. For him jeans are as significant
in changing the course of fashion history as the Chanel jacket.
Lacroix had the idea of starting his own line in jeans while watching
bull-fighting in the Camargue. "If you close your eyes in the arena,
you find yourself in a sea of blue, because everybody is wearing
jeans."
The new line consists of around 120 designs in denim, linen and satin,
with many of the characteristic Lacroix touches, like unexpected
combinations of Hawaiian flowers with futuristic hologram prints. The
range will cover everything from stretch jeans to biker's jackets and
waistcoats inspired by the 17th century borrowed from Lacroix' couture
collection.
The line is being manufactured in Italy by the industrialist Gilmar and
is expected to generate a turnover of 60 to 70 million francs (12 to 15
million dollars) in the first year, with 200,000 items going on sale at
500 outlets.
Prices will be between 350 and 1,700 francs.
After a rocky first year, the house, which belongs to the world luxury
leader LMVH (Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy), is expected to break even in
1996 or 1997. The ready-to-wear luxury line will have an anticipated
turnover this year of 120 million francs, around the same as for the
new diffusion line, Bazaar. Lacroix has his eyes set on the expanding
market in Asia and will open two boutiques in Beijing and Shanghai in
summer 1996.
