Europeans worried by rising tensions in Mostar 
European diplomats have told Croatian President Franco Tudjman that
they are worried by rising tensions between Croats and Moslems in
Mostar in the south of Bosnia, where the two groups have shared power
since July of last year, the Hina news agency said Friday.
They have also expressed anxiety about the future of the federation
between Croats and Moslems in Bosnia-Hercegovina that came into being
following the Washington agreement of March 1994 and now appears at
risk from the Croatian side.
It was the second time in four days that European diplomats had
intervened to tell Tudjman of the need to safeguard the federation,
following an appeal by German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel on Tuesday.
The news agency said that French ambassador Jean-Jacques Gaillarde,
respresenting the European Union, and Portuguese envoy Octavio Neto
Valeria, for the Western European Union, had handed Tudjman a note
outlining their fears.
Tudjman assured them that he would do everything in his power to have
the Washington agreement implemented and ensure the federation acquired
a vigorous identity and joined Croatia in a confederation, the agency
reported.
He also promised to give full support to the European adminstrators in
Mostar.
Kinkel had called on Tudjman to do his best to breathe new life into
the federation, the future of which has been called into question by
the promise made by the international community to the Bosnian Serbs
that they can enter a confederation with Serbia if they accept the
five-nation contact group's peace plan.
The Bosnian Croats at once turned their back on the Croat-Moslem
federation, arousing press speculation that a deal was under way
between the Serbs and the Croats.
This would involve the the Croats reestablishing their control over the
Serb-occupied Krajina area of Croatia while withdrawing their support
from the Bosnian government.
Croatia and Bosnia are at present linked by a cooperation treaty, which
has a military dimension and the Washington agreement.
The European Union administrator in Mostar, Hans Koscnik of Germany,
sounded an alarm in Bonn recently when he accused the Bosnian Croats of
obstructing his mission to bring reconciliation and reunification to
the town.
The Moslem part of Mostar and an historic bridge were completely
wrecked by a year of Croatian bombardments which lasted from April 1993
to March 1994.
One of Koschnik's staff, who asked not to be named, said the diplomatic
moves now under way "were coming a bit late," in a reference to the
meeting due to be held in Munich in Germany this weekend between
Bosnian Croats and Moslems in an effort to strengthen their federation.
Recently Klaus Metscher, one of Koscnik's deputies, said the present
situation resembled that before the bloody clashes of 1993 and 1994.
"It is unforgiveable that we we should be back in a situation in which
clashes could break out again at any moment," the newspaper Slobodna
Dalmacija reported him as saying.
Troops of the Bosnian Croat army (HVO) surrounded the building housing
the administration in Mostar last Friday to secure the release of a
Croat accused of raping a Moslem, United Nations forces have reinforced
security there and along the line separating the two communities.
