American League Roundup
Texas built an eight-run lead on four homers off Roger Clemens, two by
Ivan Rodriguez, then held off the Boston Red Sox 9-8 Thursday night in
a matchup of division leaders.
Boston cut the lead to 8-7 with six runs in the fifth and one in the
sixth, but Rodriguez singled and scored on Mike Pagliarulo's double in
the seventh to make it 9-7.
Juan Gonzalez and Pagliarulo also homered off Clemens (2-2), who
allowed four homers for the first time in 335 games during his 12-year
career.
Bob Tewksbury, tied for the AL lead with four complete games, allowed
one hit through four innings before fading in the fifth. Ed Vosberg
(4-2) got the final out of the eighth to earn the victory. Yankees 7,
Twins 2
In New York, Bernie Williams drove in three runs and Jack McDowell won
for the sixth time in his last seven decisions as New York defeated
Minnesota.
McDowell (7-5), the ace of the staff ever since Jimmy Key was sidelined
by a season-ending shoulder injury, allowed four hits _ one of them a
homer by Chuck Knoblauch on the first pitch of the game _ in seven-plus
innings.
Williams had an RBI single in the fourth and a two-run homer in the
eighth, his 10th of the year. Paul O'Neill had sacrifice flies in the
second and seventh innings. O'Neill leads the Yankees with 42 RBIs and
Williams has 41.
Minnesota starter Kevin Tapani (4-10) allowed 11 hits and five runs _
four earned _ in 6 1-3 innings. Royals 9, Orioles 8
In Baltimore, Wally Joyner's RBI double capped a two-run rally in the
ninth inning as the Kansas City Royals, who earlier blew a six-run
lead, beat Baltimore.
Gary Gaetti led off the ninth with his 18th homer, tying the game 8-8
and giving Doug Jones (0-3) his first blown save since May 16.
Tom Goodwin had a one-out single and Joyner had a two-out double off
the scoreboard in right field. Goodwin's head-first slide beat the
relay throw to the plate.
Rusty Meacham (3-2) got the victory by getting the last out in the
eighth, and Jeff Montgomery worked the ninth for his 15th save.
Kansas City snapped Baltimore's four-game winning streak and won for
just the fourth time in 16 games. Angels 8, Tigers 5, 10 innings
In Detroit, Tim Salmon's three-run homer in the top of the 10th inning
kept California in a first-place tie atop the AL West.
The Angels came back from a 5-1 deficit with two runs in the sixth, one
in the seventh and one in the eighth. Salmon had four RBIs and Jim
Edmonds had three, including a two-run homer off the light tower above
the right-field roof.
Salmon's homer, his 16th, came on the first pitch he saw from reliever
Joe Boever (4-5) after singles by Tony Phillips and Greg Myers.
Troy Percival (2-0) got the win with two innings of shutout relief. Lee
Smith pitched a scoreless 10th, striking out two, for his 21st save,
tying him with Cleveland's Jose Mesa for the league lead. Brewers 8,
White Sox 7, 10 innings
In Milwaukee, Darryl Hamilton's run-scoring double with two outs in the
bottom of the 10th inning gave Milwaukee the victory over Chicago on a
record hot Thursday night at County Stadium.
Hamilton's drive to right-center off Roberto Hernandez (2-4) scored
Jeff Cirillo, who singled with two outs.
Reliever Al Reyes (1-1) got his first major league victory, throwing 1
2-3 innings of hitless relief. He walked two and struck out one.
Tim Raines beat out a potential inning-ending double play in the ninth,
allowing the White Sox to take a 7-6 lead, but Greg Vaughn's two-out
double tied it 7-7 in the bottom of the ninth.
The gametime temperature was 104 degrees, breaking the record of 98
degrees set June 21, 1988. The temperature neared the city's all-time
high of 105 on July 24, 1934. Blue Jays 4, Mariners 1
In Seattle, Toronto scored three unearned runs in the eighth to get a
victory over Seattle, whih turned the first triple play of the season
in the ninth.
The Mariners made a season-high five errors _ three of them in the
eighth _ before getting the triple play.
Cone (8-5) went eight innings and allowed four hits and three walks
with six strikeouts. Tony Castillo got his fourth save by pitching the
ninth.
Alex Gonzalez opened the eighth against Tim Belcher (4-5) by reaching
on second baseman Cora's throwing error _ his second of the game.
Martinez was safe when first baseman Tino Martinez could not handle his
line drive, allowing Gonzalez to get to third. Devon White singled in
Gonzalez _ the only hit of the inning _ and Paul Molitor's sacrifice
fly scored Martinez. White scored on Joe Carter's fielder's choice
groundout.
