S. Leonean Govt Narrows Gap With Rebels: 
Sierra Leonean Foreign Minister Maigore Kallon said here today the
breach between the government and the rebels has been "narrowed" in
ongoing peace talks while ceasefire is holding in the country.
In an interview with Xinhua during the break of the second day of the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) Council of Ministers meeting here,
Kallon said the two warring sides have managed to agree on 26 out of 28
articles of a drafted peace agreement.
Meanwhile, he admitted that "there are two crucial areas that we
disagree" during the ongoing talks in Abidjan, capital of Cote
d'Ivoire, including the process of disarmament and the control of the
budget.
The Rebel Revolutionary United Front (RUF) insisted that within the
first two months of the signing of the peace accord, all the foreign
mercenaries who have been in Sierra Leone to assist the government
forces be withdrawn, while the disarmament process be finished within
three months.
This was rejected by the government, according to the minister who
described the proposal as "ridiculous".
He said his government counter-proposed that within three months
following the signing of the peace accord, the foreign mercenaries
withdraw simultaneously with the disarmament of the RUF rebels.
On the budget issue, the RUF insisted on setting up a joint committee
with the government to "co-manage" the country's budget and the foreign
debt, which was also rejected by the government.
According to Kallon, the Freetown government insisted the budget be
controlled by parliament which includes the ruling Sierra Leone
People's Party (SLPP) and six other opposition parties.
"If the RUF is willing to talk, they can form their own party and join
parliament through voting," he noted.
On questions over the results of the ongoing peace talks in Abidjan,
the minister said he was "cautiously optimistic".
He admitted that while the negotiating process is going on, acts of
violation of the ceasefire agreement, signed in march following the
swearing-in ceremony of newly-elected President Tejan Kabbah, have also
been reported in the country's districts of Tonkolili, Bo, Kenema and
Pujehun.
"But generally speaking, ceasefire is holding," he stressed.
