Offshore Fishing Ban Conserving Resources 
The Ministry of Agriculture will tighten and continue to enforce a stay
on offshore fishing this year, according to today's China Daily.
The suspension of offshore fishing will serve as an effort to conserve
marine resources, especially the threat to the immature "hairtail"
species of fish.
The moratorium is entering its third continuous year. This year the
moratorium will enter its second phase, beginning from September 1 to
October 31.
According to Yang Jian, deputy director of the ministry's Bureau of
Fisheries, fishing activities will be curtailed within 30 nautical
miles of shore in an area located between 27 and 35 degrees north
latitude.
"The move to suspend offshore fishing from July 1 to August 31, in the
northern part of the East China Sea and the South Yellow Sea has been
successful," Yang said.
No fishing boats were seen in the areas during the July-August period
in the last two years.
But during the September-October period, he noted, control is expected
to be tightened when fishing is allowed outside the 30-nautical-mile
line.
Yang warned that uncontroled fishing in September and October is likely
to ruin the achievements made in July and August.
Partly because of the moratorium, output in fishing declined last year,
compared with 1995.
The second phase stipulates that immature fish should account for no
more than a quarter of all catches.
The ministry will cooperate with the State Administration for Industry
and Commerce to control the conditional fishing.
Catches during the period will be checked in ports, markets,
storehouses and customs to ensure the percentage is observed.
According to statistics, after the first ban in 1995, "hairtail" output
increased 30 percent from that in 1994 and stocks of "yellow croakers"
also began to recover.
The Bureau of Fisheries may extend the annual moratorium in terms of
duration and area in 1998, following three years of enforcement of the
present ban, Yang said.
Neither the domestic nor the international market for aquatic animals
have been or will be influenced by the moratorium on Chinese offshore
fishing, Yang said.
China has a high output of fish from inland areas and deep seas. Over
half output of aquatic products come from aquaculture. Moreover,
dealers have stored up enough for the market demand during the
moratorium.
