Missing witness could clear six Filipinos in Canadian murder case: defence
A crucial witness to the murder of Canadian Luc Ethier could clear six
Filipinos accused of carrying out the shooting, one of three defence
lawyers said Tuesday.
"There's a witness who saw the killer and heard him shout 'Allahu
Akbar' (God is Greatest) after the shooting, but that witness left the
country last week," Abdul Majeed Khuraibet told reporters on the
sidelines of a third court session.
"I requested him (to testify) and he said 'yes' but has left the
country," he added.
According to Khuraibet, the witness, an Egyptian, told him the killer
was wearing a red and white gutra (headscarf), worn predominantly by
Gulf Arabs.
The judge accepted Khuraibet's request to call his witness at the next
hearing on May 28.
Khuraibet said he is determined to track him down and bring him back to
Kuwait to testify.
During Tuesday's session, the judge questioned the six defendants --
Ethier's wife Mary-Jane Bitos, Jimmy Binuya, Norasa Talib Esick,
Lourdes Viray, Rosalia Tesoro Baclig and Teddy Tomaro use he too much
beating me," Tomaro, the first accused in the case, told the court in
broken English.
"I only followed State Security instructions because they beat me so
much," added Tomaro, seated behind bars.
Tomaro is the only defendant still in prison following last month's
release on a personal guarantee of the other five.
Bitos, her arm still in a support from injuries sustained when she was
shot three times during the attack, maintained that the first suspect
arrested after the shooting, Kuwaiti Islamist Majid al-Mutairi, was the
man she saw pulling the trigger.
"I was told to say Teddy is the one (killer) or they will put me in
jail... They were scaring me, shouting at me since 10 (at night) to
five in the morning," said a shaking, tearful Bitos when asked why she
initially identified Mutairi as the killer before changing her
testimony and implicating Tomaro.
"I saw him during the accident," she screamed, when asked if she was
certain Mutairi, who was interrogated and released, was the killer.
Ethier was shot dead as he walked with Bitos through a busy shopping
area south of Kuwait City last October 10.
The murder raised fears among the expatriate community in Kuwait of a
revenge attack on a Westerner following the October 7 launch of US-led
air strikes on Afghanistan.
Both Ethier and his wife had converted to Islam.
In November, the interior ministry arrested the six and a seventh
Filipino, who has since been released, claiming the group had planned
to share Ethier's life insurance money.
Bitos, along with Binuya and Tomaro, are accused of premeditated
murder. Esick is accused of supplying the murder weapon, a pistol that
has still not been found.
Baclig is accused of informing Ethier's killers of his whereabouts on
the night he was shot, and Viray faces charges of knowing of the crime
but failing to inform authorities.
