Powell to visit Afghanistan next week by Matthew Lee
US Secretary of State Colin Powell will visit Afghanistan next week as part
of an Asian tour that will also take him to India, Pakistan and Japan, the
State Department said Friday.
"Secretary Powell will travel to Kabul as part of his upcoming trip and
we still reserve the right to name other stops at a future date,"
spokesman Richard Boucher said.
When Powell arrives in Afghanistan he will become the highest ranking
US official and first secretary of state to visit the war-shattered
country in more than 25 years.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld briefly visited Afghanistan in
December but did not travel to Kabul, staying only at the Bagram
airbase north of the city.
The last secretary of state to travel to Afghanistan was Henry
Kissinger, who visited Kabul in August 1976 during the administration
of former president Gerald Ford, according to the State Department.
In an interview with wire service reporters earlier Friday, Powell said
he wanted to go to Afghanistan on the Asia trip which begins Tuesday
but would not confirm that section of the visit.
He said he would like to speak with interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai
and other officials to congratulate and encourage them on their efforts
to rebuild the country and rid it of extremist organizations such as
the Taliban which was ousted by rebels backed by the US military in
Washington's war on terrorism.
Powell also said he wanted to see the situation in the country
first-hand.
"I would like to have an assessment of the situation in Kabul and in
the country, but mostly (I would like) to get to know the leaders,"
Powell said. "I don't know them on a personal basis and I would like to
get to know them."
The secretary also said he would like to thank Afghan employees of the
US embassy in Kabul who have maintained the property since it was
abandoned in 1989. The embassy re-opened on December 17.
"From what I hear, they did a pretty good job," Powell said.
The Kabul stop will be part of a six-day Asian tour that will see
Powell stop in India and Pakistan in an effort to ease tensions between
the nuclear rivals and then to Japan.
In Japan, Powell will attend a January 21-22 donors conference on
Afghan reconstruction. He said he wanted to stop in Kabul to see
exactly what was needed for that effort.
"I would solicit (the Afghan leadership's) input on what they need with
respect to reconstruction so I would be freshly informed when I went on
to Tokyo," he said.
US officials say Washington's initial contribution would be about 400
million dollars, but Powell acknowledged that much more would be needed
noting that the current estimate of assistance needed in the
medium-term was about eight billion dollars.
Powell said there were no plans to link assistance to the new Afghan
administration's cooperation in the war on terrorism, now directed at
the remnants of the Taliban and Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network.
"We haven't made a direct link between the assistance that the people
need to start a better life and our war, what we have said to the
leadership that we've still got a lot of work to do," he said.
"We want to make sure that the Taliban has been totally destroyed
throughout the country, we want to make sure al-Qaeda has been ripped
up, we want to see if we can find (Taliban leader) Mullah omar, Osama
bin Laden and other leaders if they are still trying to find refuge in
Afghanistan," Powell said.
But, he stressed that Karzai's government was already cooperating.
"We're getting a high level of cooperation and there's no need to
threaten them or make any link between aid and cooperation because
we're getting cooperation."
