FAO Chief Vows to Help Ethiopia Realize Food Self-Sufficiency 
Director General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) Jacques Diouf pledged here Tuesday that the FAO will
support Ethiopia's efforts to achieve food security and
self-sufficiency.
The FAO will do its best to mobilize donor countries to help Ethiopia
attain sustainable food security, Diouf said when meeting with
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi.
Diouf briefed Meles about the U.N. Inter Agency Task Force in April
this year to bring about long-term food security and agricultural
development in the Horn of Africa, an official closed to the meeting
said.
In response, Meles said the Ethiopian government is preparing viable
strategies instrumental in sustainably tackling the impacts of
recurrent drought which have put over 10 million Ethiopians into
starvation since late last year.
The next five-year development program of Ethiopia is mainly focused on
achieving food security and self-sufficiency in food production, the
prime minister said.
Due attention will be given to the expansion of afforestation, soil
conservation, environmental rehabilitation and irrigation activities in
drought-hit parts of the country, he noted.
In addition, he said, efforts would be made to resettle farmers from
low land to fertile areas.
Diouf, who arrived here Tuesday, also met Ethiopian Foreign Minister
Seyoum Mesfin over the food crisis in the Horn of Africa.
Diouf told Seyoum that the U. N. Inter Agency Task Force has prepared a
document aimed at redressing drought and drought- related problems in
the Horn.
The document stressed the need to establish a pragmatic and robust
water control system to tackle drought in the sub-region, according to
a spokesperson of the Ethiopian Foreign Ministry.
The two officials also discussed the outcomes of the World Food Summit
held in November 1996.
The World Food Summit aimed at slashing by half the number of hungry
people across the world by the year 2015, Diouf said.
He said the FAO has made progress in achieving the goals of the World
Food Summit, cutting by eight million per annum the number of hungry
people around the world.
"This is not enough because to achieve the goals we need to cut the
figure by 20 million," he said.
Diouf is on his second leg of brief visits to six East African
countries. He has already visited Kenya.
