Police Colonel Accused of Murder
Police investigating political killings in South Africa's Zulu
heartland said Wednesday they had arrested one of their own, a colonel
they accuse of at least 10 murders.
Col. Louis Botha, who worked in what was then Natal Province in the
late 1980s, was arrested Tuesday at his new post in Port Elizabeth, 800
kilometers north of Cape Town, Lt. Gen. Wouter Grove, head of the crime
investigation division, said in a statement.
Botha was released on 10,000 rand (about dlrs 2,700) bail after a court
hearing Wednesday, and ordered to appear again July 3, Grove said.
Police spokesman Joseph Ngobeni said Botha was accused of at least 10
murders committed in the 1980s. Police refused to provide further
details, but said investigations were continuing and further arrests
could result.
Ironically, Botha had been assigned to Port Elizabeth's community
policing department, a program the new black-led government hopes will
restore public confidence in a force linked to some of the most brutal
excesses of the apartheid years.
Botha was arrested by a team investigating charges assassination squads
were taking part in a war between supporters of the African National
Congress and the Inkatha Freedom Party in Natal and the former KwaZulu
homeland. The two eastern regions were merged into KwaZulu-Natal
Province following South Africa's first all-race election last April.
KwaZulu-Natal has been the main battleground in a war that has killed
more than 20,000 people in the past decade. The ANC has long accused
the ousted white minority government of fanning ANC-Inkatha violence in
order to destabilize the black opposition.
Last year, an independent commission headed by Richard Goldstone, the
South African judge now prosecuting Yugoslav war crimes, accused South
African police of training assassination squads and giving arms to the
Zulu nationalist Inkatha in hopes of prolonging white rule.
Other investigators, working for a council overseeing the transition
from white minority rule to democracy, accused KwaZulu homeland police
of killing political foes.
