British Voters Still in Changeable Position: Polls 
As Britain's general election campaign is getting into depth, opinion
polls show that the mood of the voter is still volatile.
With three weeks to go to the polling day, the latest Gallup poll
showed the opposition Labor Party 23 percentage points ahead, only 5
less than when the campaign began last month.
But a Mori poll showed Labor's lead cut sharply to 15 percentage points
-- down 12 in the past week. It put Labor on 49 percent, the Tories on
34 and the Liberal Democrats on 12.
Nevertheless, Labor is still in a much stronger position with a bigger
lead than during any recent general election campaign.
There is no precedent for the Tories to reverse the huge gap that still
exists between them and Labor before the polling day.
Wednesday, Prime Minister John Major and opposition Leader Tony Blair
both sought to focus on the issue of trust and steer attention away
from Neil Hamilton, the former minister at the center of the "cash for
question" allegations.
Tories claimed there was "open warfare" between Blair and his deputy,
John Prescott, over privatization. Labor accused the prime minister of
breaking his promises to cut tax.
Both parties accused each other of "lying" as the campaign is getting
into depth.
"Privatization was not mentioned in their manifesto. It's now something
Blair has believed in since he was in nappies, it seems," said Major.
Michael Heseltine, the deputy prime minister, accused the Labor
leadership of "lying" to try to cover up its U-turn over its readiness
to privatize the National Air Traffic Service.
Labor seized on a report from the Institute for Fiscal Studies which
concluded that the real tax burden for the average household had risen
by 7 pounds (11.2 US dollars) a week since the last election.
Blair claimed the Tories wanted people to forget what they had said
before the last election. He accused Major of breaking 92 promises and
imposing 22 new taxes, and "failing to give the country leadership."
