Hunt for toddler abducted Christmas Eve goes into fourth day ATTENTION
- REFILING, CORRECTING seventh para to read xxx the youngest child xxx
sted both children /// CHICAGO, Dec 27  - Police were following up
leads from as far away as Arizona and Hawaii Thursday in the hunt for a
16-month-old girl abducted from a Chicago bus station on Christmas Eve,
officials said. A national manhunt for the woman who took the toddler
Monday has generated hundreds of calls to police here, Chicago police
spokesman Pat Camden said. The police department has sent out 1,500
pictures of Jasmine Anderson to law enforcement agencies around the
country and her distraught parents have pleaded for the return of their
little girl since she disappeared from Chicago's Greyhound Bus Station.
But so far police and FBI agents have not found anything to help them
identify or locate the woman who approached Marcella Anderson and her
children, offered them a ride home, and then vanished with one of
Anderson's daughters. The 21-year-old mother from Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
was returning home from a visit to her brother and sister in St Louis,
Missouri, when she was approached by the woman in the South Loop bus
station around 9:50 p.m. (0350 GMT) Monday. Stressed out from
travelling with a 16-month-old and a three-year-old on her own, the
young mother gratefully accepted the woman's offer, according to her
account. But when she left the youngest child with the would-be good
Samaritan and went to the ticket counter to get a refund on her bus
tickets, she noticed the woman disappearing into the crowd with her.
"It was wrong, I realise that now. (But) she was there, she was
friendly. She was someone I thought I could trust," Anderson told CNN.
"I was thinking there was someone there to help me." The child's
shell-shocked father, who did not make the trip because of his fear of
flying, was still grapplSmG&AMP;with his daughter's abduction. "I still
don't know how to deal with it," Greg Knowles told CNN. Hundreds of
thousands of children are reported missing every year in the United
States but only 200 to 300 of those cases turn out to be abductions by
strangers, according to official statistics. ld/ceh
