Perry heads for Britain after disappointing Mideast tour
US Defense Secretary William Perry wrapped up visits to Turkey, Saudi
Arabia and the Gulf on Monday having apparently failed to drum up
support for a new US military strike on Iraq.
In Ankara, Foreign Minister Tansu Ciller ruled out letting the United
States use the Incirlik air base in southern Turkey for a possible US
military strike against Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.
"There has been no US request for the use (of Incirlik) ... Indeed we
cannot respond positively to such a request regarding Incirlik," Ciller
told reporters after a meeting with the Pentagon chief.
"This would not be a correct approach for our country's current
interests."
Allied aircraft based in Incirlik launched intensive strikes against
Iraqi targets as part of the US-led multinational coalition which drove
Iraqi troops from Kuwait in the 1991 Gulf War.
Perry arrived in Ankara on Monday after visits to Saudi Arabia -- which
so far has also ruled out allowing US warplanes based in the kingdom to
carry out strikes on Iraq -- Kuwait and Bahrain.
Besides Ciller, Perry also met President Suleyman Demirel, Defense
Minister Turhan Tayan and the chief of the general staff, General
Ismail Hakki Karaday, before leaving Ankara for London, where he was
scheduled to hold talks with his French and British counterparts
Michael Portillo and Charles Millon.
Bahrain, headquarters for the US Fifth Fleet, has accepted the
deployment of 23 US F-16 fighters while Kuwait has provided facilities
for eight F117 Stealth bombers and 18 F-16s.
But the Kuwaitis have appeared reluctant to accept an additional 3,000
to 5,000 US troops, and a Riyadh-based diplomat said Monday it may be
because of Saudi pressure.
Perry met with Saudi King Fahd on Sunday but no details of the talks
were released.
Prince Sultan, the Saudi defense minister, said earlier however that he
did not think the United States planned another military strike against
Iraq and welcomed recent statements from Baghdad aimed at defusing
tensions.
Despite a Pentagon announcement last week that Kuwait had agreed to
accept additional US troops as part of a show of force against Iraq,
the troops have yet to depart.
