It is, however, widely considered to at least violate the spirit of the
Israel-PLO agreements under which both sides pledged not to take action on
the ground which would create faits accomplis prior to negotiations on a
permanent peace settlement.
These so-called final status talks began symbolically in May before
Netanyahu's election but have since been suspended. They area due to be
completed by May 1999.
Angry protests over Netanyahu's settlement policy have come not only
from Palestinians but from the Israeli opposition and the country's
main allies, notably the United States and the European Union.
During a visit to Gaza and Israel this week, top US Mideast envoy
Dennis Ross reiterated that settlement expansion was "a problem that
complicates the negotiating process."
Yossi Sarid, a senior minister in the previous government and leader of
the left-wing Meretz party, charged Friday that "settlements will bring
disaster on Israel and take us back to the old, bad and dangerous
Middle East.
But government supporters and even settler leaders contend that
Netanyahu's plans so far represent a minimal action given the crucial
support given to his election campaign by the pro-settlement camp.
Of the fewer than 2,000 housing units actually approved for
construction by Mordechai, all of them had been approved by the
previous Labor government prior to the 1992 freeze and all lie close to
the green line separating the West Bank from Israel.
These areas are considered likely to become part of Israel under any
future border readjustments with the Palestinian Authority.
The project to build more than 2,000 additional homes approved by
military authorities on Thursday has yet to get a final green light
from Mordechai.
Settler leaders have been increasingly outspoken in their criticism of
Netanyahu's policy as too timid, noting that of 300 development
projects submitted to date for settlements in the West Bank and Gaza,
only 15 have gained preliminary approval.
"The Netanyahu government is trying to humiliate us," Pinchas
Wallerstein, head of the Council of Settlers in Judea and Samaria, said
Friday.
