Ex-Rwandan army troops threaten Burundi's stability: President
Interim President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya has warned the presence of
former Rwandan army troops and Hutu militia on his country's border
could exacerbate tensions in Burundi, which fears a Rwanda-style ethnic
bloodbath.
At a meeting of political party leaders and army representatives on
Friday, called to discuss security in Burundi, the president criticised
"the presence on the eastern border of a large proportion of the
Rwandan ex-army and militia."
The "massive" presence of Rwandan refugees "risks aggravating the
situation in Burundi," Ntibantunganya said.
The acting head of state also criticised the presence in Burundi of
"armed bands training in the provinces," and "attacks against security
forces," but gave no other details.
The crisis in Burundi is also being aggravated by striking students
demanding the release of politician Mathias Hitimana who was arrested
six days ago after he organised a student demonstration which left 17
people dead.
Meanwhile, the World Food Programme (WFP) warned Saturday that if the
rising tide of refugees from strife-torn Rwanda continued to pour into
Burundi, the situation could soon become explosive.
Cecilia Ljungman, WFP spokeswoman, said "these new refugees are
arriving from the province of Bugesera, in southeast Rwanda, adding to
the 263,100 Rwandans who settled in Burundi after the outbreak of civil
war in their country in April.
"We are in an emergency situation. It's too early to tell which ethnic
group these people belong to nor why they are leaving Rwanda," she
said.
Burundi, like Rwanda, has a population mix made up of a Hutu majority
and a Tutsi minority. In Rwanda, the Tutsi-dominated Rwandan Patriotic
Front (RPF) is now in power after ousting the Hutu-led interim
government.
Up to a million people, mainly Tutsis and moderate Hutus died in the
slaughter which followed the death in a suspicious plane crash of
Rwanda's Hutu president Juvenal Habyarimana. Some two million others
fled to neighbouring states, notably Zaire.
Burundi's Hutu president, Cyprien Ntaryamira, died in the Habyarimana
plane crash.
