World final reruns thrown up by World Cup draw 
Repeats of the last two world championship men's singles finals have
been set up following the table tennis World Cup draw here on
Wednesday.
France's Jean-Philippe Gatien, who beat Jean-Michel Saive of Belgium in
the 1993 world final in Gothenburg, Sweden, and China's Kong Linghui,
who beat compatriot Liu Guoliang in the 1995 final in Tianjin, China,
last May, meet again in group matches.
The group C Gatien/Saive encounter of this 16-man, invitation event is
also a repeat of last year's World Cup final in Taiwan, which Gatien
also won.
However both men are coming back from health problems. World number
seven Gatien could not practise for virtually the whole of September
with a virus and opens his 1995/96 season at this October 12 to 15
tournament, the first time it has been held in Europe.
Saive's problems are less serious, but he has not played since a
European league match against England on October 3 because of a pulled
muscle in his right playing arm.
Gatien has also been drawn with Levallois teammate and North American
champion Johnny Huang. China-born Canadian Huang, the world number 13,
has lost to Gatien the last two times they played.
Kong and Liu, who meet in group B, were surprise world finalists this
year. The top Europeans and China's most experienced internationals
Wang Tao, the current world number one, and twice World Cup winner Ma
Wenge, were expected to be the title challengers.
Croatia's Zoran Primorac, who won the title in 1993, believed he had a
tough draw in Olympic champion Jan-Ove Waldner of Sweden, European
Masters champion Jorg Rosskopf of Germany, and France's European bronze
medallist Patrick Chila in group D.
"Chila is a very tough draw. The other number fours in the other groups
-- the Oceania, African, and South American champions -- are much
weaker," Primorac said.
This biggest annual men's competition in table tennis -- the world
championships are every two years and the Olympics every four years --
is the richest in the sport with 110,000 dollars prize money.
The event comprises six continental champions, the Olympic champion,
the defending champion, a host country player, two wild cards and five
other top players.
