As bus riders scrambled for a second day to cope with a transit strike,
the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and its mechanics union
resumed talks Tuesday night in hopes of resolving a dispute over
outside contracting.
``We hope that we can make some progress,'' said Los Angeles County
Supervisor Edmund D. Edelman, chairman of the MTA. ``But we're still
far apart.''
In their first estimate of ridership since the strike began, MTA
officials said there were about 200,000 passenger boardings on
contingency lines Monday -- down from 1.2 million on a typical weekday.
MTA officials said there were probably a similar number of boardings
Tuesday.
Nearly 7,000 MTA employees went out on strike at 12:01 a.m. Monday
after talks broke off between the agency and officials with the
Amalgamated Transit Union, which represents nearly 2,000 mechanics.
MTA officials want the ability to contract out some of the work
performed by the mechanics, including maintenance, and to buy some
equipment that is now made by its union workers.
The union opposes such moves, disputing MTA officials who say outside
contracting will save money.
Union and MTA negotiators were meeting again Tuesday night, but both
sides were careful not to characterize Tuesday's meeting as a
negotiating session.
``We're meeting to decide whether we should reconvene negotiations,''
said MTA spokeswoman Andrea Greene.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL ADD FOLLOWS.)
The meeting was called by state mediator Tom McCarthy, who has been
involved with the negotiations for more than a month. AFL-CIO
Secretary-Treasurer Jim Wood also was scheduled to attend the meeting
at a downtown law office.
``Obviously, we only have one thing to talk about and that's how to get
a speedy resolution to the strike,'' Wood said. ``We're trying to
explore what kind of opportunities there are to resolve this.''
But the president of the Amalgamated Transit Union, representing nearly
2,000 mechanics, said that he expects a long strike if the MTA pushes
for a new contract that allows the agency to contract out services to
other vendors.
``I'm predicting a very long strike if subcontracting is the issue,''
ATU president Michael Bujosa said.
The unions representing the MTA's bus drivers and clerks have reached
agreements that call for wage increases of 4.6 percent over three
years, according to MTA officials. But both unions plan to continue to
honor the mechanics picket lines.
Los Angeles County Supervisor Michael D. Antonovich, an MTA member,
said he is encouraged that the two sides are meeting, but that the ATU
contract has to be ``brought into the 21st century.''
He said the agency can save taxpayer dollars by contracting out some
services instead of manufacturing its own tools and equipment in-house.
``Currently the union has a Santa's Village mentality,'' Antonovich
said.
He noted that it costs $9 to buy a commercial dust pan at a store and
$26 for the MTA workers to build one.
``People got excited about a $900 toilet seat,'' Antonovich said.
``Here they're making a $26 dust pan.''
But mechanics on the picket lines outside of the MTA's downtown
headquarters said that whenever the agency buys equipment from other
vendors it is usually poorer quality that costs more in the long-run
because it has to be replaced sooner.
Mechanic Sergio Diaz said the MTA used to spend $800 to buy power
steering boxes.
``If you pay $800 for that and we're changing them like hot cakes, what
you'll find is that it's more expensive,'' Diaz said.
The picket lines were calm Tuesday. But there was one report of
violence when a replacement driver was treated for cuts he suffered
when a rock was thrown through a bus windshield on Broadway. The driver
was hit by glass but was not seriously hurt, Greene said.
Despite the injury, MTA chief executive Franklin White said the
agency's emergency strike plans went smoother in the second day. Five
buses were added to the fleet, which now numbers 318, compared with
regular peak service of 1,900 buses.
Authorities reported that ridership on the Metrolink commuter rail
system rose by 20 percent as a result of the strike, and that freeway
traffic appeared to be heavier than usual.
The agency is operating a total of 31 lines countywide instead of the
usual 204.
Although the lines are running along the heaviest traveled routes, they
are operating only between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. Ridership drops also were
reported on the Metro Red Line and Metro Blue Line because of the
shortened hours.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL 2ND TAKE FOLLOWS.)
