Leeds leapfrog Gunners as Liverpool held at Anfield 
Putting behind them the negative publicity of the recent court case
involving their stars Lee Bowyer and Jonathan Woodgate Leeds United
gave their fans a New Year present Tuesday by going top of the English
Premiership.
A 3-0 win at home to West Ham at a frosty Elland Road was sufficient to
move Leeds into pole position with 41 points from 21 games.
Leeds, who have lost just twice in the league this season, began like
an express train with Mark Viduka tapping home on four minutes and then
heading the second three minutes later from a Danny Mills cross.
Robbie Fowler brilliantly lobbed the third five minutes after the
restart.
The win, which repeated a three-goal showing against the Hammers when
Leeds last won the title a decade ago, left the Yorkshire side two
points ahead of both Arsenal - whose match at bottom club Leicester was
called off due to a frozen pitch at Filbert Street - and Newcastle.
Leeds have, however, played a game more than their nearest rivals.
Aussie star Viduka said Leeds were worth a title bet.
"If we kepp playing as consistently as we have been so far we've a good
chance of staying up there," Viduka told Sky Sports television.
Sidekick Fowler said he was loving life after his recent switch from
hometown side Liverpool.
"I've settled in very quickly and I feel good. It's a massive change
for me but it's a fresh chapter in my career," said Fowler, who freely
admitted that he still loved Liverpool despite his move.
Bobby Robson's Newcastle must shoot down reigning champions Manchester
United at Old Trafford on Wednesday if they want to go back to the top
having spent 10 days at the summit prior to Saturday's home reverse
against Chelsea.
Chelsea wrecked their chances of closing the gap on the leading quintet
following a surprise 2-4 home loss to struggling Southampton.
Liverpool were equally feeling the blues as they blew the chance to
return to the top after being held to a frustrating 1-1 draw at Anfield
by Bolton Wanderers.
The Merseysiders broke the deadlock through England midfielder Steven
Gerrard just after the break but Kevin Nolan, a boyhood Liverpool
supporter, equalized for Bolton 12 minutes from time.
Liverpool stay fourth with 38 points from 20 matches
Liverpool caretaker boss Phil Thompson, holding the reins while manager
Gerard Houllier recovers from heart surgery, admitted concern at his
team's dip in form which has seen them take just six points from their
last six league games.
"We have got to be concerned but I'd be more concerned if the effort
wasn't there," said the former Liverpool defender.
"I feel this is two points lost. We played well but there was no
conviction with the final pass."
Bolton boss Sam Allardyce was delighted with a point for his
relegation-threatened side.
"This was a fantastic result for us, particularly with the other clubs
in the bottom half doing well. It could be a priceless point at the end
of the season."
Inconsistent Chelsea lost their fourth league match of the season as
unfancied Southampton buried them at Stamford Bridge.
Eidur Gudjohnsen and Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink gave Chelsea a 2-1
half-time lead after James Beattie's stunning 30-yard free-kick had
given Saints an early lead.
But Latvian striker Marian Pahars levelled before Beattie's second goal
and a fourth from midfielder Chris Marsden secured a shock victory for
Southampton.
Chelsea boss Claudio Ranieri was almost lost for words - despite
working hard on his English.
"Crazy football, crazy Chelsea, It's very difficult, very frustrating,"
the Italian stuttered.
Elsewhere, a Dean Richards' header handed Tottenham a 1-0 win at home
to Blackburn for whom former Manchester United hitman Andy Cole made
his debut.
Charlton recovered from going two goals behind to edge Ipswich 3-2 at
The Valley.
Marcus Bent scored twice in the first five minutes for Ipswich but John
Robinson and Scott Parker put Charlton back on level terms and Jason
Euell notched the winner.
Everton lost their fifth league game on the trot as Gianluca Festa
handed Middlesbrough, coming off four straight defeats, a 1-0 win at
the Riverside, increasing speculation over the future of Everton boss
Walter Smith.
Aston Villa goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel saved Kevin Phillips'
first-half penalty as John Gregory's men earned a 1-1 draw at
Sunderland.
Ian Taylor fired Villa in front only for Brazilian defender Emerson
Thome to level matters four minutes from time.
