Tamil Tiger mount fresh attacks, toll hits 10 
Tamil Tiger guerrillas mounted fresh attacks against security forces in
eastern Sri Lanka Sunday, killing at least six soldiers and four
civilians, the military said in a statement.
Gunmen of the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) attacked an
army patrol in the Pulmodai area, killing five soldiers, the statement
said adding that four civilians were also killed in the crossfire.
Another soldier was gunned down by the LTTE in Trincomalee district
Sunday, raising to 176 the total number of security personel killed
since the Tigers withdrew from a truce on April 19 and resumed their
separatist war.
Tamil Tiger rebels meanwhile tightened a siege on army camps in
northern Sri Lanka by cutting off a vital air link, but a field
commander said Sunday that the soldiers had no orders to go on the
offensive.
There has been no airlift of troop reinforcements or fresh food to the
string of camps inside the rebel-held Jaffna peninsula since the
downing of two transport planes eight days ago, a field commander said
by radio telephone.
"There is no way to break the siege except to launch a major operation.
Otherwise we will be sitting ducks and only be sacrificing our camps,"
the field commander said, adding that the rebels were mounting the
pressure.
Radio intercepts of the LTTE spoke of heavy build-ups outside the
northern Palaly and Pooneryn military camps but soldiers had no orders
to take countermeasures, the field commander said.
"The government wants to eat the cake and have the cake. They are still
talking about peace. What am I to tell my men? We can't die like dogs
sitting in our camps," the commander said.
"We must launch a full-scale war or should be allowed to pack up and
go," he said.
"But it looks like every five years we are sacrificed to the Tigers,"
the officer added, referring to the previous peace bid with the LTTE.
The government then held 14 months of peace talks but the LTTE pulled
out in June 1990 and massacred over 600 policemen who were ordered by
the police high command to surrender to the rebels in the island's
east.
The LTTE responded to peace overtures of President Chandrika
Kumaratunga, who came to power in August last year, but unilaterally
withdrew from a truce with her on April 19 to resume their separatist
war.
Since the breakout of fresh hostilities, the LTTE has decimated two
army camps, blasted two navy gunboats and downed two Avro military
aircraft, killing 97 people aboard.
