UN Envoy Says Peace in Sierra Leone on Way 
A senior U.N. official Saturday said peace in Sierra Leone is on its
way with the handover of eastern Kono district, the main stronghold of
the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) rebels, to the U.N. peacekeepers
in the country.
Oluyemi Adeniji, special representative of U.N. Secretary General Kofi
Annan, made the remarks in an interview with the Guardian newspaper in
Nigeria's commercial capital Lagos.
After more than a decade-long civil war with its negative consequences,
there seems to have high hopes that peace may now return to war-ravaged
country, Adeniji said.
According to Adeniji, foreign journalists have visited Kono and "they
can now see that they have been disarmed and the place is now free".
He expressed the hope that heads of state and government of the
Economic Community of West African States will also visit Kono
district, the heart of the diamond zone, and "see the progress that has
been made".
The U.N. envoy disclosed that the U.N. Mission in Sierra Leone
(UNAMSIL) have succeeded in disarming over 16,000 combatants in the
diamond-rich country.
He declared that the RUF rebels have accepted to come to an amicable
resolution of the lingering crisis, which has turned the country to a
colony of orphans and amputees.
Adeniji further disclosed that the RUF rebels have agreed to attend
monthly meetings with the government of Sierra Leone under the
chairmanship of the Special Representative of the U.N. Secretary
General in order to assess the level of disarmament and determine how
to continue.
"The RUF has in negotiation with us agreed that all their strongholds
are open including the diamond areas which they were holding and which
people thought they would never surrender," he added.
During the civil war, the RUF, which controlled almost all the
diamond-rich areas in the eastern and northern parts of Sierra Leone,
used diamonds to finance its war against the successive governments,
which has witnessed tens of thousands of civilians mutilated, raped or
displaced.
As the largest U.N. peacekeeping force in the world, the UNAMSIL, which
the Security Council on March 30 agreed to increase to 17,500 troops
from a strength of more than 12,000, is trying to strengthen its
deployment aimed at reaching lasting peace in the West African country.
