US confident it can obtain indefinite extention of NTP
The United States is confident it can obtain widespread support to
extend indefinitely the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) when its
175 signatories meet here later this month, western diplomats said.
But Russia and France take a more cautious stance ahead of the landmark
April 17-May 12 conference that will coincide with the 50th anniversary
of the United Nations.
"We are extremely confident," said John Holum, director of the US Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency, earlier this week in Washington.
The UN conference, Holum added, was a unique opportunity to turn the
NPT into a "permanent" instrument.
The Europeans have a strong feeling that the treaty will be extended
indefinitely, but they fall short of being absolutely certain, a
diplomat said here.
Some experts believe the United States, Russia and the European Union
might resort to renewing the 25-year-old treaty for another quarter
century if its signatories turn down their proposal for an indefinite
extension.
Russia has estimated that 70 countries support the idea of an
indefinite and unconditional extension of the NPT, but that number is
18 shy of the 88 majority needed.
Some western dipomats believe the proposal will scrape by with around
90 votes.
Since its inception in 1970, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty has
had the clear purpose of giving the major nuclear powers -- Britain,
China, France, Russia and the United States -- the legal means to keep
their nuclear edge over all other nations.
The nuclear pacesetters hold up the NPT as an effective prevention of
nuclear proliferation, claiming that other countries with nuclear
weapons such as Israel, India and Pakistan began developing their
arsenals before the NPT came into being.
Over the past few months, Egypt has been actively campaigning against
the indefinite extention of the treaty in the hope Washington will
bring pressure to bear on Israel to have it sign on the NPT, which
Israel steadfastly refuses to do.
Timing his comments with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's visit to
Washington this week, Holum said the US administration did not count on
Cairo's support at the upcoming UN conference.
Holum stressed that each member of the Arab League was free to vote on
the NPT issue as they chose.
As the conference draws closer, Britain, France, Russia and the United
States have stepped up their lobbying efforts to secure the maximum
votes for the NPT's indefinite extention, and have no qualms in
exploiting existing disagreements on the NPT issue among developing
nations.
China has been careful not to disclose its position to avoid upsetting
any compromise the developing world may arrive at ahead of the
conference.
Leading the Third World group opposed to the NPT's renewal are Egypt,
Indonesia, Iran and Nigeria, all of whom decry the treaty's
discriminatory nature and demand that the nuclear powers take new steps
toward nuclear disarmament.
And among the developing nations favoring the NPT's extention, some are
only willing to renew it for 10, 15 or 25 years at most.
Should any of these limited extentions be approved, Western diplomats
said, the big losers would be the developing nations because all
cooperation on civilian nuclear programs would grind to a halt as none
of the five major powers would be willing to take any risk under a
shaky NPT.
To reassure the doubtful, the five nuclear powers intend to push a
resolution through the UN Security Council providing security
arrangements for all non-nuclear NPT signatories if they are threatened
or attacked.
Meanwhile, western diplomats said that negotiations in Geneva for a
worldwide ban on nuclear weapons testing were well under way, and that
another convention to ban the production of fissionable material was in
the works.
