All Black coach wants change to concussion rules
New Zealand All Black coach John Hart called Friday for New Zealand Rugby
Football Union's (NZRFU) mandatory three week stand-down period for
concussion to be reviewed.
Hart wants his players to have pre-season psychometric testing to allow
for quicker and more precise diagnosis that could theoretically allow
some players to come back earlier than the three weeks.
"There are some degrees of concussion," said Hart.
"I'd like players to take tests at the start of the season when they
are totally fit, and then their state of fitness can be assessed after
the injury by further tests. I'd like to see the All Blacks and Super
12 players operate under that regime."
Hart said it had to be ensured that the player's welfare was not
compromised and that players would not be pressured to play before they
are ready.
"But at the same time it's difficult if the player wants to get back
quickly -- you have to rely on his honesty and the ability of the
medical staff.
"There are examples in other sports where players have been directed to
play before they are ready. That's the down-side of the professional
game."
The New Zealand Rugby League's national team doctor, Stu Thomson,
agrees with Hart's theory.
Thomson became a central figure in a controversy over player Matthew
Ridge last year when he approved Ridge's appearance for New Zealand
soon after what seemed a very heavy concussion in the Optus Cup league
semi-final in Sydney.
"Concussion is a variable injury. Some have only a slight memory loss
and are a little bit dazed. Some are concussed -- I've had a player who
couldn't work in his job a year later," said Thomson. "Each needs to be
judged on its merits. The problem is that there are so few people who
can actually assess concussion.
"I doubt there's a general practitioner in the country who has the
skills in the area of psychology and psychometric testing in terms of
running the appropriate tests and knowing how to test.
"I agree with Hart's idea. That's what I do with the Kiwis."
But there is that problem. "These tests have been around for a long
time, but they've been the domain of neuro-pyschologists.
"There's only one of those in Wellington and there's a six-month wait
to get someone tested. And that's a little ridiculous if one wants to
clear up a rugby injury."
