Austrian Woman, Lumber Broker Investigated in Alleged Sales to Libya
An Austrian woman was charged with breaking a trade embargo against
Libya by selling the North African country more than dlrs 850,000 worth
of lumber.
Helga Euler flew to Portland on Wednesday for arraignment on charges
that she shipped southern yellow pine to Libya in 1993 after buying it
through Patrick Lumber Co., a Portland trading company.
Euler was arrested Monday at the Atlanta airport on her return to
Europe from a trip to the Caribbean, Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles
Gorder said.
She appeared before U.S. Magistrate Donald Ashmanskas in Portland but
did not enter a plea to charges of conspiracy, violating the embargo
and money laundering.
Euler had been arraigned on the same charges Tuesday in Atlanta because
federal law requires arraignment at the nearest federal court as soon
as possible following arrest, Gorder said.
Euler was released pending payment of the remainder of her dlrs 500,000
bail by Thursday. She already had posted half at her hearing in
Atlanta, Gorder said.
Tom Carstensen, Patrick Lumber vice president, declined to comment
Wednesday, other than saying the company was aware of the
investigation.
``We've been cooperating with the government for quite some time,''
Carstensen said, but he refused to elaborate. He referred questions to
the company's lawyer, Philip Lowthian of Portland, who declined to
comment.
Gorder said the operation was not considered a ``sting'' but the
investigation dated back to early last year. He would not talk about
the role played by Patrick Lumber other than to say the investigation
was continuing.
He said Euler could face up to 10 years in prison and a dlrs 250,000
fine if convicted of violating the Libyan embargo. Money-laundering
charges can bring up to 20 years and a dlrs 250,000 fine.
The federal complaint outlines an investigation by a U.S. Commerce
Department agent alleging that Euler approached Patrick Lumber in early
1993 about purchasing some lumber for export.
The sale involved two separate shipments of southern yellow pine Euler
purchased from Patrick for dlrs 877,100. The shipments made in July and
December 1993, left Mobile, Alabama, for Trieste, Italy. The lumber was
then shipped to Libya, according to the complaint.
Company employees also told investigators that Euler asked Patrick
Lumber to pay a Liechtenstein bank account for a damaged shipment, but
the company paid Euler rather than reimburse an account linked to
Libya.
The complaint says faxed messages between Euler and Patrick Lumber
indicated the lumber was bound for Libya, and that several Patrick
Lumber officials confirmed to investigators they suspected where the
shipments were headed.
Libyan sponsorship of worldwide terrorism under its leader, Col.
Moammar Gadhafi, resulted in a trade ban in the 1980s. Only emergency
medical supplies are exempt.
