Netanyahu Rules Out New U.S. Pressure
Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu welcomed today the
re-election of U.S. President Bill Clinton, who he forecast will not
exert new pressure on Israel in Israeli-Arab peace talks.
"I want to extend my congratulations to President Bill Clinton being
elected for (a) second term. I think President Clinton is a warm friend
of Israel and the Jewish people. He (has) showed that friendship time
and again," Netanyahu told a news conference here.
The prime minister also congratulated U.S. Vice-President Al Gore for
his election victory, praising him as "a great friend of Israel for
many years."
Netanyahu said that he expected Clinton's re-election would make it
easier to ensure the continuation of the Middle East peace process,
while believing that the much-expected U.S. pressure will not be
applied.
"We are looking forward to working with the new, old if you want,
American Administration on the process of extending peace in the
(Middle East) area. We have been doing this consistently over the last
few months, and we intend to do it in the coming days, as well as
coming months and years," he asserted.
The hardline premier repeated the accusation of the Palestinian
Authority for delaying the signing of an agreement on Israeli troop
redeployment in the West Bank town of Hebron.
He claimed that U.S. peace envoy Dennis Ross, originally expected to
return to Israel today, postponed his trip because the Palestinians did
not give the go-ahead signals.
Ross returned home last week after the failure to secure a Hebron deal,
despite three weeks of intensive mediation.
Talking about Israeli-Syrian tension, Netanyahu said Israel viewed
Syria's message as a "serious commitment", which was sent through the
U.S., Russia and France clarifying that its troop movements were purely
defensive.
Once again, Netanyahu called on Syria to resume peace negotiations with
Israel.
He said that Syria and other parties in the Arab world should
understand that "the date of the American elections does not materially
change their need and responsibility to enter negotiations."
Meanwhile, U.S. Ambassador to Israel Martin Indyk confirmed that the
Clinton government would continue playing the role of facilitator in
the peace talks, ruling out any changes in the U.S. policy regarding
its involvement in the peace process.
Indyk believed an Israeli-Palestinian deal was imminent. "The issues
can be resolved, and we are close to the resolution. But it is up to
the parties themselves to make those decisions," he said.
The ambassador also said that the Clinton government would maintain its
aid to Israel at the current level in order to "minimize the risk of
the peace process."
Currently Israel receives 1.2 billion U.S. dollars of annual economic
aid from the U.S. in addition to 1.8 billion dollars of military
assistance.
