Aum's frontman describes shame, regret at trial
Aum Supreme Truth's frontman, Yoshinobu Aoyama, confessed to an array
of charges Wednesday on the opening day of a trial that saw prosecutors
portray his faith as a doomsday cult bent on unleashing a stockpile of
deadly nerve gas.
In the biggest trial so far of leaders of the outlawed sect, Aoyama, a
35-year-old disbarred lawyer, told a packed courtroom that he had
joined Aum in 1988 in a bid to gain "salvation" through its
proto-Buddhist, yogic teachings.
But now, he said, he could only feel contrition for the sect's deeds.
"I deeply regret what has happened and I'm ashamed of my folly. I
should not have done what I did," Aoyama said. "I accept responsibility
for it."
Prosecutors launched their attack with a chilling description of how
Aum stealthily built up an arsenal of deadly nerve-gas and then
released it at night in a village in the foothills of the Japanese
alps, killing seven inhabitants.
Aum's leader, Shoko Asahara, goes into the dock on October 26, charged
with murder in the nerve-gas attack on the Tokyo subway in March in
which 11 people were killed and 5,500 others were injured.
Some 3,000 people lined up outside the Tokyo District Court hoping for
a place among the 56 seats reserved for the public, and hundreds of
reporters laid siege to the building.
Court officials said the crowd was the second largest since 3,900
turned up for the first day of the trial of former prime minister
Kakuei Tanaka in the Lockheed bribery scandal in 1983.
Aoyama graduated from the highly-regarded Kyoto University and in 1984
became Japan's youngest lawyer at the time. He often appeared on
television to defend the sect, fluently portraying it as an innocent
and peaceable religious group that had been falsely accused.
The sect's other spokesman, who was also a top media performer, was the
flamboyant Fumihiro Joyu, 32, who was arrested earlier this month.
Investigators told the court Wednesday the sect had produced at least
10 kilogrammes (22 pounds) of Sarin gas by February 1994, and four
months later released part of it in the alpine town of Matsumoto, in an
attack in which seven people were killed.
Aoyama, in his statement of contrition, said he had joined the sect
because he felt lost and needed a spiritual direction -- and found it
in the teachings of the bearded and nearly-blind Asahara.
"I had been trying to reach Buddhist salvation," he said. "I am now
completely determined never to do wrong again, and I have withdrawn
from the sect. I want to return to society."
Aoyama admitted to charges of attempted fraud, making false accusations
and sheltering Aum fugitives.
He also faces charges of libel against a fertilizer producer living
near the sect's commune in the village of Kamikuishiki, central Japan.
The lawyer said he was ordered by Asahara to file a suit in January
charging the fertilizer producer had sprayed nerve gas on the sect's
commune to kill followers.
After Aoyama was arrested on May 3, the Federation of Japanese Bar
Associations stripped him of his lawyer's status.
Coinciding with the trials of Aum's leaders, the government has stepped
up efforts to tighten control of religious groups by submitting a bill
to parliament to revise the nation's religious laws.
Despite strong opposition from the Buddhist-backed opposition party,
the three-party ruling coalition intends to pass the bill during the
current parliament session which will end November 13.
