The new ``Butterfly'' relies on acting as much as arias for its
dramatic impact. Cio-Cio San and Pinkerton sing sideways, facing the
floor, kneeling, running, falling and lying on a rock.
Leech's Pinkerton is a lusty, leering groom to his shy, trusting bride
of 15. Their son is an unusually important part of the story, on stage
for much of the second and almost all of the third act. He is played by
Alyssa Aftab, the 4-year-old daughter of Wendy White, the mezzo-soprano
who sings Suzuki, Butterfly's maid.
``Because her mother is there, we can keep her onstage longer,'' said
del Monaco. ``I think that relationship is very important in
`Butterfly.'''
Del Monaco appears to take an intuitive approach to staging, trying
ideas out and discarding them until he is satisfied with the effect,
and then fine-tuning them if they get in the way of the singing. A
paper boat that he had Cio-Cio San slip from her bosom and set in a
pool of water for ``Un bel di'' had a tendency to go soggy and was
replaced by a red poppy. Later, as Butterfly prepares for hara-kiri,
the music recalls the themes of her loving and suffering. ``Un bel di,
remember?'' del Monaco says, as he watches Suzuki lift the poppy from
the water and show it to her.
``I try to look at it differently, to squash it from the side, or enter
from a secret corner,'' del Monaco said, adding that an opera, like a
person, ``changes a lot if you see them from another point of view.''
It was with such small steps that he rediscovered the mother in
Butterfly and the charming cad in Pinkerton. ``Puccini wanted that,''
he said.
Del Monaco, a son of the celebrated Italian tenor Mario del Monaco,
seems emotionally enveloped by the project at hand. During rehearsals,
as the music builds, he jumps from his seat to stand in the aisle, his
arms punching giant commas in the air, or stays put but throws his head
back and flings his arms wide, as if breathing in the opera. Speaking
half to himself, he scolds or sympathizes with his characters as they
move through their parts.
As Sharpless, the American consul at Nagasaki, advises Butterfly that
perhaps Pinkerton will never return, she carries out the son born after
Pinkerton left. ``And this one, would he forget also this one?'' Del
Monaco translates, adding his own commentary: ``That bastard,
Pinkerton.''
For Ms. Malfitano, who has portrayed Cio-Cio San in many different
productions over the last eight years, this ``Butterfly'' presents a
more complex collage of emotions. The tragedy she carries in the form
of the engraved knife her father used to commit hara-kiri is never far
from Ms. Malfitano's interpretation.
Oddly, Ms. Malfitano does not see Butterfly's end as tragic, but as a
final forceful rejection of the delusion that has made her life
untenable. ``I think of it as a passage for Butterfly,'' she said.
``She is transforming the last moments of her life to give her child
flight.''
Del Monaco's designer of both sets and costumes, Michael Scott, spent a
year researching Cio-Cio San's garden with Japanese landscape
architects; the 300 plant pieces on stage include every flower
mentioned in the libretto. He found the wedding kimono -- ivory satin
embroidered with silver flowers -- in a German antique-clothing store,
and studied the colors of kimonos and placement of sashes for the
chorus of Butterfly's friends and relatives in the first act. The
kimonos were in soft pastels, hand-painted in Japan, with intricately
woven sashes.
But months of work can fizzle to nothing before opening night if the
ideas somehow don't mesh or seem likely to prove troublesome. Thus the
fireflies that burned so brightly they were mistaken for the lights of
Nagasaki harbor were ruled out at the final dress rehearsal on Monday.
And the sunglasses for Pinkerton and Sharpless, which del Monaco seemed
to love Friday morning, disappeared Monday by veto from Volpe.
Staging the new production seems as much a maneuver of diplomacy as of
vision, especially as the first night approaches and tensions and egos
threaten to take over. Volpe seems to relish the role of backstage
strongman, the figure ready to make the tough decisions and see them
through. For example, Clark said he had misgivings about the
sunglasses, but suspected del Monaco would not listen to his advice. So
he mentioned his doubts to Volpe, who seemed to share them.
Del Monaco seems willing to compromise on minor details, for he
believes his trademark will be not in the props, but in the emotions he
brings forth from the singers. For Leech, portraying Pinkerton involved
melding del Monaco's vision of a ``truck driver type'' with an elegance
that he believed an American Naval officer at the turn of the century
would have had.
``I think Giancarlo would perhaps like to see me be a bit more vulgar
than I am,'' Leech said on Sunday, adding that his own sense of
Pinkerton, untempered, risked ``looking wooden.'' The tenor said he
trusted the instincts of del Monaco, who went ``full guns for the
realism.''
``Letting these characters feel the sexuality and express it goes so
well with the music Puccini wrote,'' Leech said.
The love duet, which usually lapses into two people facing the audience
and singing, is here sung with the two lovers apart for most of the
aria, the passion building until Pinkerton falls to his knees and
gathers fistfuls of his bride's nightdress down from her shoulders.
``Now, all of a sudden,'' the tenor said, ``it all goes together, and
the audience says, `Aaah.'''
