American Neo-Nazi Expected to be Caught, Says Supporter 
Jailed American neo-Nazi Gary Lauck knew he would be caught in Denmark
this week, but his propaganda network will keep working, said a
supporter who met with Lauck Thursday.
``He is doing fine. We talked about what happened and he said (his
arrest) came as no surprise to him ... He knew something was to come,''
Danish neo-Nazi leader Jonni Hansen told The Associated Press.
The Dane visited Lauck Thursday afternoon at a jail in Roskilde, 40
kilometers (25 miles) west of Copenhagen.
Lauck's U.S.-based organization ``doesn't depend on Lauck. Others will
take over his job,'' Hansen said.
Lauck, of Lincoln, Nebraska, is head of the National Socialist German
Workers Party--Overseas Organization. He has been sought for years by
German authorities for supplying anti-Semitic newspapers and leaflets
in Germany.
Last week, Lauck showed up at Hansen's home in Hundige, some 20
kilometers (12 miles) south of Copenhagen. He was arrested Monday by
Danish police, at Germany's request.
Hansen, head of Denmark's National Socialist Movement, claimed he
didn't know Lauck was sought when the American arrived ``as a guest in
my house'' around March 13. He did not say where Lauck came from.
The Danish neo-Nazi, head of Denmark's National Socialist Movement,
compared Lauck's ``peculiar arrest'' to the persecution of British
writer Salman Rushdie, who is facing an Iranian religious death order.
``If I should draw a parallel, it would be as if Salman Rushdie visited
Denmark and he was arrested by Danish police, who would extradite him
to Iran,'' Hansen said.
Last Monday, eight police officers -- three in uniforms -- arrested
Lauck at Hansen's home, a bungalow hidden behind a tall wooden fence
and boarded windows. He was not handcuffed when arrested at 4:15 p.m.
(1545 gmt), Hansen said.
No others were arrested.
Hansen claimed Lauck's group ``has not been knocked out because of the
arrest. ... Lauck has just been removed, and that is a loss but he is
not irreplaceable.''
But Frede Farmand Rasmussen, a Danish historian researching neo-Nazis
in Denmark, said Canadian extremist Ernst Zuendel likely would become
Lauck's successor.
Contrary to Hansen's claims, Lauck's arrest was a ``major blow'' to the
distribution of right-wing propaganda to Germany, Farmand Rasmussen
said.
