Mideast-incursion RAMALLAH, West Bank: At least 15 Israeli tanks and troops
pushed towards the centre of the West Bank town of Ramallah causing heavy
clashes to break out, both Israeli and Palestinian security sources
said. Mideast-US-Mubarak WASHINGTON: Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak
insisted in interviews broadcast Sunday that US pressure toward making a
Palestinian state a reality is key to helping reach peace in the Middle
East in spite of President George W. Bush's refusal to commit to a specific
timetable for it. Russia-Baltic-summit SAINT PETERSBURG: Russian President
Vladimir Putin meets with Baltic Sea states prime ministers for a summit
expected to be dominated by the issue of Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave
sandwiched between European Union prospective members Poland and
Lithuania. US-attacks-probe WASHINGTON: A top congressional overseer of the
US intelligence community said he has more people coming forward with what
they believe is crucial intelligence that could have helped prevent deadly
September 11 suicide attacks. Ethiopia-plane ADDIS ABABA: Two young people
who tried to hijack an internal Ethiopian Airlines flight were shot dead by
national security agents on board, Radio Ethiopia reported. US-space
HOUSTON, Texas: US astronaut Franklin Chang-Diaz and his French colleague,
Philippe Perrin, successfully completed a space walk to add new fixtures to
the International Space Station. Madagascar-talks DAKAR: Peace talks
between Madagascar's elected President Marc Ravalomanana and political
rival Didier Ratsiraka in the Senegalese capital Dakar broke up without
agreement. France-vote PARIS: French President Jacques Chirac was on course
to win an overwhelming parliamentary majority, after the centre-right
scored a decisive victory in the first round of the elections for the
National Assembly. Afghan-politics KABUL: The new shape of Afghan politics
should begin to emerge as delegates from across the country meet to choose
a new government, with Hamid Karzai seen as a near-certainty to continue as
the nation's leader. afp
