Moya, Philippoussis Advance to U.S. Open Semis 
French Open champion Carlos Moya of Spain needed just 90 minutes to
beat Sweden's Magnus Larsson 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 and advanced to the
semifinals of the U.S. Open tennis championships here today.
Unseeded player Mark Philippoussis of Australia edged Thomas Johansson
of Sweden 4-6, 6-3, 6-7 (3-7), 6-3, 7-6 (12-10) to take the last
semifinal berth tonight.
Moya will fight Philippoussis in the semifinal while Pete Sampras of
the United States takes on Rafter of Australia in another Semifinal.
Moya faced just one break point the entire match and controlled the
battle from both the baseline and the net as he became the first
Spanish man to advance to the Open semifinals in 23 years.
He committed only 15 unforced errors and won 25-of-28 points at the
net. The 10th seed will meet the winner of tonight's quarterfinal
between unseeded players Mark Philippoussis of Australia and Thomas
Johansson of Sweden.
The 22-year-old Moya, last year's Australian Open runner-up, was a
little surprised that he won so easily.
"I was a little bit surprised, but I knew he had some problems with his
back, and these windy conditions was better for me," he said. "I just
tried to do my best. It was easier than I expected, I have to say
that."
In contrast, the big Swede struggled throughout the match with 41
unforced errors and seemed uncomfortable in the cold, windy conditions.
"I don't know what happened out there," Larsson said. "He was playing
too good in these conditions. I had real problems with the wind, as I
usually have."
Moya closed out the match with his only ace of the day. He advanced to
the quarterfinals Monday night with a straight-set victory over
countryman Alex Corretja, but that is not indicative of the hard road
the Spaniard has had to travel.
Moya came back form two sets down and survived three match points to
take out American Michael Chang in the second round and survived a
fifth-set tiebreak with American Jan-Michael Gambill in the third
round.
Johansson and Philippoussis, who also have never faced each other, both
played in their first U.S. Open quarterfinal.
