U.S. Delegation in North Korea To Discuss Liaison Offices 
A team of U.S. negotiators arrived in North Korea Tuesday to discuss
the exchange of diplomatic liaison offices, the North's official media
reported.
The offices would be opened in Washington and the North's capital of
Pyongyang under an agreement signed last Oct. 21 in which North Korea
promised to freeze its nuclear program in exchange for technical and
economic aid.
While in Pyongyang, the U.S. delegation is to look at possible sites
for the American office.
During talks in Washington last December, U.S. and North Korean
negotiators resolved many technical details, such as what
communications facilities the offices will have and what should be done
if a citizen of one country is arrested or injured in the other.
The brief dispatch Tuesday by the Korean Central News Agency gave no
further details on the U.S. negotiators' visit.
One prominent issue that remains unresolved is how U.S. diplomatic
staff would travel to North Korea.
U.S. officials want to cross the demilitarized zone between North and
South Korea. Pyongyang, which has been striving to exclude South Korea
from all its dealings with Washington, opposes that idea.
The exchange of liaison offices would be the first step toward
diplomatic ties between the bitter battlefield enemies. The United
States fought in the 1950-53 Korean War on South Korea's side.
U.S. officials have said the representation in each office will be at
the lowest level allowed by the international agreement governing
establishment of diplomatic relations.
Under the nuclear deal, the United States, Japan and South Korea are
creating an international consortium that will help finance two new
reactors, worth dlrs 4 billion, to be given to the North.
The North will also be provided with replacement oil until the reactors
are built by 2003. In return, Pyongyang must shut down its experimental
reactor and stop work on two planned graphite reactors that can produce
more weapons-grade plutonium.
