World War II: FDR Goes For Fourth Term
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt tells a Washington press conference
July 11 that he will accept a fourth term as the nation's chief
executive ``if the people elect me.''
He releases a letter to Democratic Chairman Robert E. Hannegan in which
he says, ``You have written me that...a majority of the delegates have
been directed to vote for my renomination for the office of
president.... If the convention s hould carry this out, and nominate me
for the presidency, I shall accept. If the people elect me, I shall
serve.
``Every one of our sons serving in this war has officers from whom he
takes his orders. Such officers have superior officers. The President
is the Commander-in-Chief and he, too, has his superior officer -- the
people of the United State s.
``I would accept and serve, but I would not run, in the usual partisan,
political sense. But if the people command me to continue in this
office and in this war, I have as little right to withdraw as the
soldier has to leave his post in the line.''
Moving to a ``purely personal'' matter, Roosevelt says, ``For myself, I
do not want to run.... All that is within me cries out to go back to my
home on the Hudson River, to avoid public responsibilities and to avoid
also the publicity whi ch in our democracy follows every step of the
nation's Chief Executive.
``Therefore, reluctantly, but as a good soldier, I...will accept and
serve in this office, if I am so ordered by the commander-in-chief of
us all -- the sovereign people of the United States.''
Roosevelt makes no mention of a running mate. He later will say lamely
that he prefers the current vice president, Henry A. Wallace, but that
the choice is up to the convention.
Before a recent trip to China, Wallace reportedly told the president
that he didn't want his own political liability to stand in the way of
Roosevelt's re-election.
On July 8, Virginia Democrats, meeting in state convention at Roanoke,
unanimously adopted a resolution opposing the re-nomination of Wallace
``who has become a convert to doctrines and ideologies foreign to the
faith and traditions of Vi rginia.''
Many Americans believe that Wallace has moved well left of center in
his political views. In 1948, he will be nominated for president of the
United States on the Progressive Party ticket, and will accept support
from the American Communi st Party.
Favorites to replace Wallace on the ticket are War Mobilization
Director James F. Byrnes, Associate Supreme Court Justice William O.
Douglas and Senators Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky and Harry S. Truman
of Missouri.
Iowa Democratic Sen. Guy M. Gillette announces in Cherokee, Iowa, that
he cannot ``conscientiously vote for a fourth term for President
Roosevelt,'' and withdraws as a delegate to the Democratic national
convention, which will open July 1 9 in Chicago.
When Wendell Willkie, 1940 Republican presidential nominee, is told by
a reporter of Roosevelt's announcement, he laughs and asks, ``Is that
news?'' .
