Tanzania, South Africa agree on joint economic approach 
South Africa and Tanzania are to embark on a joint approach in solving
economic problems facing the two countries, South African President
Nelson Mandela announced here on Wednesday.
Addressing newsmen here at the end of his three-day state visit to
Tanzania, Mandela said he and Tanzanian President Ali Hassan Mwinyi had
agreed to explore cooperation in the fields of trade, agriculture and
mining for mutual benefit of their two countries.
Mandela said before departure for home that he will instruct his trade
minister Trevor Manuel to work out a scheme in which Tanzania can
benefit from South Africa's vast experience.
"We will give Tanzania a special consideration in sharing our economic
advantage as a tribute to its sacrifice in the liberation of struggle
of the continent, and South Africa in particular," Mandela declared.
He said his country is committed to helping Tanzania, and requested
Tanzanian government to state priority areas that needed South African
assistance.
"To avoid South Africa becoming an overpowering partner in economic
cooperation between our two countries, Tanzania should pinpoint areas
which will bear fruits to both sides in a two-way traffic cooperation,"
Mandela stressed.
Mandela said Tanzania has a great potential in mining but lacked
necessary technology and financing and pledged South Africa's readiness
to assist Tanzania in this regard so that it can share South Africa's
massive mining experience.
Mandela said South Africa was also ready to share its experience with
other African countries, including Tanzania, in agriculture, adding
that plans were in hand to deploy South African farmers in countries
interested to help in revolutionising their farming systems.
Mandela, who was seen off by Mwinyi, also pledged his country's
commitment to use regional organisation, such as the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) for cooperation with other countries on
the basis of "perfect equality."
"This way, it would be easy to end the legacy of the former apartheid
regime that used economic power to dominate other neighbouring states,"
he said.
On the political situation at home, Mandela said his African National
Congress (ANC) party was becoming more widely supported by citizens of
all races and colours.
He cited a recent survey which showed that 83 percent Africans, 66
percent asians, 55 percent whites and 51 percent coloureds supported
the ANC.
"ANC has won support and acceptance by all sectors of South African
society. ANC's policy is the hope of the country's future," he added.
