70 Percent Of World's Population Could Use All-Star Benefit Concert
According to a study released Monday by the United Nations Economic and
Social Council, 4.2 billion people--a full 70 percent of the planet's
inhabitants--could use an all-star benefit concert.
Michael Jackson during the finale of last month's "United We Stand"
benefit concert.
"Whether ravaged by war, disease, natural disaster, or just plain
grinding poverty, there are a whole heck of a lot of people out there
in desperate need of a star-studded fundraiser at Madison Square
Garden," ECOSOC president Martin Belinga-Eboutou said. "Or, if not
that, a Quincy Jones-produced remake of 'What's Going On' featuring
everyone from P. Diddy to 'N Sync to U2's Bono."
Belinga-Eboutou pointed to the recent success of Concert For New York
City, a five-and-a-half-hour extravaganza featuring such superstars as
Elton John, Mick Jagger, Backstreet Boys, Paul McCartney, and Destiny's
Child, among others. Earnings from the benefit, which aired on VH1 and
will soon be released as a double-disc CD, are expected to surpass the
$150 million raised in last month's all-star America: A Tribute To
Heroes telethon.
"If we could get something like that going in the 315,583 places on the
globe the U.N. has identified as 'in crisis,' we'd really have
something," Belinga-Eboutou said.
Belinga-Eboutou cited Gujarat, the Indian state where a January
earthquake killed an estimated 100,000 people and left nearly one
million homeless, as an example of a region that could use a night of
star-studded "compassiontainment."
"If Jerry Seinfeld could see it in his heart to toss off a few of his
trademark observational one-liners for the needy people of Gujarat, it
would greatly alleviate the suffering they have endured,"
Belinga-Eboutou said. "And the rock stylings of a reunited Who would be
much appreciated, as well."
Last week, the U.N. established an exploratory committee to begin the
arduous task of assigning stars to the world's trouble spots. However,
with the ratio of needy locales to bankable stars standing at 4,390 to
1, an estimated 800 two-hour concerts per celebrity would be required
over the next year to set things right in the world. These figures are
also contingent upon no further natural or man-made catastrophes
occurring during that time period.
Though only in its initial stages, the deployment of stars has already
begun. Last week, R&B sensation Pink was dispatched to Indonesia to
raise money for the families of the 350 asylum-seeking refugees who
drowned in an overcrowded boat last month, while Arista recording
artist Dido is slated to perform Nov. 27 in war-torn Macedonia. In
addition, the '80s new-wave band Soft Cell has agreed to reunite for
three December shows in AIDS-ravaged South Africa.
New York concert promoter Ron Delsener, who is in talks to organize
more than 22,000 relief concerts on behalf of the U.N., said the
logistical problems such a humanitarian effort would present are
considerable.
"There just aren't any adequate venues for, say, an Ozzy Osbourne show
in Sierra Leone," Delsener said. "No stadiums, no arenas, not even a
large auditorium. And have you ever tried tracking down a pyrotechnics
expert with a union card in sub-Saharan Africa? It's practically
impossible."
Delsener also noted that the cost of providing adequate security at
such a concert would be greater than the gross national product of the
nation in need.
Despite such challenges, Third World leaders are urging musicians to do
whatever they can.
"It is up to each and every star to pitch in," said Nicaraguan
president José Arnoldo Alemán Lacayo, whose drought-ravaged country
will soon receive help in the form of Eagle-Eye Cherry. "From heavy
hitters such as Billy Joel and Bruce Springsteen to young upstarts like
Macy Gray, the world needs all the singers it can get."
The world's impoverished received more good news Monday, when George
Harrison, whose 1971 Concert For Bangladesh was the first all-star
fundraiser, said plans are underway for a follow-up show.
"I've already talked to Ringo [Starr] and Eric Clapton, and Tom Petty
appears to be interested, too," Harrison said. "The Concert For
Bangladesh was such a big success, there's no reason to think that this
upcoming Concert For Albania, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia,
Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Macedonia, Malawi, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, The Philippines,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia and Montenegro, Sierra Leone,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, Uzbekistan,
Vietnam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe won't be just as
great."
