Zimbabwean President Hails National Service Policy 
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe said here on Saturday that the
proposed National Youth Service Policy (NYSP) will instill a sense of
belonging, patriotism and responsible citizenship in young Zimbabweans.
Addressing thousands of school children gathered at the Harare
International Conference Center to commemorate the Day of the African
Child, Mugabe said the NYSP will contribute to the development of the
nation.
"Through the policy the Ministry of Youth Development, Gender and
Employment Creation has developed, the young people will be empowered
so they can contribute fully to the shaping and building of our
nation," he said.
National service is set to begin next month with school leavers being
taught survival tactics.
In designing strategies and programs for children, Mugabe said, there
was need to develop an approach of working with the young people
themselves as opposed to working for young people.
"In Zimbabwe, the land reform program currently underway is one of
ensuring that the majority of our people are empowered and placed in a
position to provide for their children," he said.
Whilst the government had put in place specific goals and actions to
give children a better future, Mugabe said young people themselves need
to be creative problem solvers by developing personal initiatives and a
sense of responsibility.
"To enable them to fit into the current challenging environment, the
young people must be taught skills and imparted knowledge that will
assure them of a meaningful role in society," he said.
The government will continue to use to the maximum extent all available
resources to implement the goals and objectives of the national program
for action for children, he said.
"Because the government has committed itself to creating a world fit
for children, it is putting in place mechanisms to eradicate poverty,
combat HIV/AIDS, and programs that will improve the education and
health care systems of the country," he said.
The Day of the African Child was declared by the Organization of
African Unity through a resolution to honor the South African black
school children who were massacred on June 16, 1976 when they
demonstrated against the segregated education.
