Mantle Thinks He Got No Preferential Treatment in Liver Transplant
Baseball great Mickey Mantle doesn't understand why people think he got
preferential treatment in receiving a new liver, he said in his first
interview since the surgery.
``You know, people think I got that liver because of who I am, but they
have rules they go by,'' Mantle said in Sunday's editions of the New
York Daily News. ``They told me I had one day to live. If I hadn't got
this one, I wouldn't have made it.''
Mantle was hospitalized May 28, and received a new liver June 8, two
days after he was placed on the list of patients in need of an organ
donor.
The transplant was done when doctors found Mantle had progressive liver
failure they linked to a small malignant tumor, more than 40 years of
excessive drinking, and a long dormant hepatitis C infection.
The 63-year-old Mantle was released from Baylor University Medical
Center in Dallas on Wednesday after continuing to show significant
improvement from the surgery. Mantle's doctors have said the former New
York Yankees slugger's outlook for recovery is good, despite signs that
his body has been slightly rejecting his transplanted liver.
Mantle told the Daily News he had no idea how serious his condition was
before he received the transplant.
``I didn't even know what was going on,'' he said. ``I can't even
remember them telling me anything. One day I was hanging around, the
next thing I knew I was already operated on.''
For now, Mantle is resting at his youngest son Danny's home in North
Dallas, where he has been living because he is separated from his wife,
Merlyn, the younger Mantle told The Associated Press. He did not
elaborate.
``He's doing really well,'' Danny Mantle said Saturday night. ``He's
still real weak. He can walk, but not real far. He tires out pretty
quick.''
Mantle's routine includes a daily trip to Baylor for blood tests and an
every-other-day regimen of steroids to help combat his body's rejection
of the new liver, his son said. Mantle also is scheduled for weekly
chemotherapy.
But he spends most of his days resting and watching TV.
``He still watches the Yankees a lot, and we've watched the (Texas)
Rangers,'' Danny Mantle said. ``It's helped him a lot to get home
rather than being cooped up in the hospital.''
Mantle plans to have a news conference as soon as he gets his strength
back, his son said.
``He doesn't want to do that until he feels he feels he can walk,''
Danny Mantle said. ``He can walk from room to room, but when we're at
the hospital I push him in a wheelchair. If he walks farther than 100
feet, he's pretty worn out.''
Mantle's physician Jeffrey Crippin, a liver specialist, said his
patient is tough.
``He can't swing a golf club and I wouldn't give him a 35-ounce
(1-kilogram) bat to hit a baseball,'' Crippin said. ``But in a weird
sort of way, he's already hit a home run. The fact that he bounced back
so fast is a tribute to how tough he is.''
