Buck Showalter sounded confused and helpless as he talked about the
status of his striking players, two emotions that are rarely associated
with the control-crazed, detail-oriented Yankee manager.
Whether he is watching another minor league game or scampering through
another airport, Showalter's thoughts for almost two weeks now have
frequently drifted to what his players are doing. He wishes he knew.
Showalter claimed that he has not spoken to any players since the
strike began on Aug. 12 because he has been inundated with scouting
trips. After spending a few days at home in Pace, Fla., he went to Fort
Mill, S.C., and then to Columbus, Ohio, to scout the Yankees' Class AAA
Clippers. He is now in Albany, with the Class AA club.
What about the major league Yankees? They might as well have been
hiding on one of his flights.
``You try to stay in touch with them, but you don't know what to do,''
Showalter conceded Wednesday, in a telephone interview from his Albany
hotel. ``It's a strange situation. It's weird. I don't know what to
do.''
It is permissible for Showalter to speak with his players during the
strike, so he could potentially retrieve answers about Mike Stanley's
bruised right hand, Don Mattingly's chronic right wrist injury or
whether Jimmy Key and Melido Perez are throwing consistently. But he
admitted that telephoning them would be an unusual and delicate matter
that he has so far avoided.
Even though Showalter has conversed with trainer Gene Monahan to get
updates on those who have injuries, a club spokesman said that no
Yankees have been sighted in the Bronx since the strike began. Paul
Gibson is the only Yankee who lives in the metropolitan area year-round
and he was at the strike negotiations Wednesday.
Still, Monahan has surely spoken to various players and has surely
reiterated the team's advice to remain in shape, similar to what he
does in the off season. When Showalter was told by a reporter that a
dozen calls to players on Tuesday afternoon did not find any of them
home, the manager quickly asked, ``Were they working out?''
Showalter was told that only Mike Gallego was discovered to definitely
be working out because the majority of calls drew responses from
answering machines or simply were not answered at all. Once so
optimistic about the possibility of a quick strike settlement,
Showalter sounded pessimistic Wednesday.
``I think the next two or three days are going to be big,'' he said,
wondering whether a terminated season would render New York's 70-43
record meaningless. ``They got to get something rolling.''
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
If baseball returns this season, Showalter is concerned about his
players returning in prime condition so their first-place standing in
the American League East is not jeopardized by lethargic play.
``You have to have faith in your people that they'll be ready to
play,'' said Showalter. ``There will probably be a five- or six-day
period to get ready when and if they come back, so you'll have that to
work with.''
While player whereabouts are apparently unknown to Showalter, he did
supply current information about all his coaches, except for the bench
coach Clete Boyer, whom he could not locate, either. Pitching coach
Billy Connors is scouting minor leaguers with the manager and General
Manager Gene Michael.
The other coaches were primarily busy with domestic chores.
The batting coach Rick Down drove his kids to school Wednesday, the
first- base coach Brian Butterfield repaired a rabbit cage for his
children, the third-base coach Willie Randolph returned from visiting
his parents in South Carolina and the bullpen catcher Glenn Sherlock
went grocery shopping.
