White twilight, modern dusk: a century of utopian optimism is brought
to a quiet, lyrical close in the new ground-floor galleries Gae Aulenti
has designed for the historic Palazzo Della Trienalle in Milan.
And the show that inaugurated the new space, ``Expressionism and the
New Objectivity,'' intensified the atmosphere of elegy. Focusing on the
pivotal years in the mid-1920s when many European architects embraced
the common language of the modern movement, the show, which runs
through Sunday, looked back to the dawn of a radiant idea.
The Palazzo Della Trienalle, which was designed in 1931 by Giovanni
Muzio, is best known as the site of an international design event that
once presented the most innovative ideas in the field.
In recent years, however, the event, the Milan Trienalle, has lost its
international luster, just as Milan itself has gone into eclipse as a
center for pioneering design. Aulenti's new galleries have been
conceived not only to burnish the Trienalle's reputation but also to
reconfigure its mission.
The palazzo's large ground-floor interiors were designed as flexible
spaces, so that exhibitors could overhaul them to suit their needs.
But, like their counterparts at the Pompidou Center in Paris, the
Trienalle's directors decided that some exhibitions would be better
served by a permanent setting.
Aulenti, architect of the Pompidou's renovated permanent galleries, was
a logical choice to undertake the same job here. As someone who has
often felt that Aulenti's work, while always intelligent, shows a weak
command of space, I am happy to report that her design for Milan is
first-rate.
As with her renovations of the Palazzo Grassi in Venice and the Musee
d'Orsay in Paris, Aulenti took on a landmark building. A product of the
fascist era, the Palazzo Della Trienalle represented an attempt to fuse
the two leading movements that competed to become the official fascist
style.
Neo-classicism, the style most often identified with the regime,
dominates the design, with its imposing, symmetrical entrance, the rows
of high Roman arches that surround the lower floors and such features
as the grand staircase that jackknifes through the atrium lobby.
But the regime also supported Rationalism, Italy's leading modern
movement, and its influence is evident in the bare, brick warehouse
look of the exterior walls, the exposed concrete structure and the
loftlike interiors of the exhibition floors.
Gae Aulenti continues this synthesis of modern and classical forms. Her
simple, spare design for the 10,000-square-foot ground-floor space is
based on an ingenious system of partitions. Each partition is, in
effect, an extruded column, topped with a ``capital'' that flares
outward to support small clusters of lamps.
Though classically sympathetic, the walls are modern in their geometric
clarity as well as in their function, for each partition is also a
mechanical device that houses equipment for lighting, security and
air-conditioning. Set parallel to form corridors, or rotated to enclose
a gallery, the convex partitions create spaces at once intimate and
ample.
The partitions stop short of the 23-foot-high ceiling, exposing the
concrete structure. Starkly geometric, yet richly textured by the
shadowed recesses between the concrete beams, the roof creates a
counterpoint to Aulenti's broad expanses of white wall and the diffuse
light that washes over them.
Floor-to-ceiling windows look out onto Sempione Park, and at moments
Aulenti's design seems to pull the park indoors, as if the partitions
had become a terrace colonnade, or, more fancifully, rows of spreading
trees. With their dappled light glinting off a floor of dark stained
wood, these galleries are a winter garden of shadows.
