Battle for Congress rivets attention in US elections
The race for the White House might seem a foregone conclusion, but all
eyes are on the congressional contest, with Democrats hoping to wrest
at least one of two houses from Republicans.
Republican National Committee chief Haley Barbour recently said that if
President Bill Clinton were to win again, the last thing Republicans
want is for him to have a "blank check" to push his "progressive"
policies on US voters.
All opinion polls give Clinton what appears to be an insurmountable,
double-digit lead over his Republican rival Bob Dole, but provide no
clues as to whether the Democrats will regain the upper hand in
Congress, which they lost in the 1994 mid-term elections.
All 435 seats in the House of Representatives and 34 of the Senate's
100 seats will be up for grabs Tuesday.
Control of Congress could prove crucial for Clinton, with a friendly
legislature affording the White House a less trying time during a
second term that already has an ominous look about it.
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott vowed the Republicans would
investigate Democratic fund-raising practices if they kept control of
the Senate.
"There are big troubles ahead for this president," he warned.
The Clinton campaign has been dogged by a growing controversy over
large campaign donations linked to Indonesia, Taiwan and South Korea
that broke just weeks before Tuesday's presidential vote.
While a close vote is predicted in many Senate and House races, The
Washington Post cited analysts and officials from both parties as
predicting no change in either house.
Republicans were expected to retain at least their 53 to 47 Senate
majority, while the Democrats were not in a position to win the 19
seats they needed to win back the lower house, the Post tally
indicated.
CNN television offered a slightly optimistic outlook for Clinton,
suggesting it was likely the Democrats could capture the House of
Representatives, but that Republicans were likely to maintain control
of the Senate.
Strategically, Republicans are betting on the southeast, and hoping to
nab 19 House seats left vacant by retiring Democrats.
The Democrats, hoping to defeat many of the 71 Republican "freshmen"
first-termers, have spent millions with the help of the top labor
federation, the AFL-CIO, to turn the tide in their favor.
