Lilly Asked To Tell More About McKesson Purchase
The Federal Trade Commission has asked Eli Lilly &AMP; Co. to provide
more information about its planned $4 billion purchase of the McKesson
Corp.'s prescription management operation. The FTC is reviewing the
proposed transaction to determine if the purchase of McKesson's PCS
unit would violate antitrust laws by giving Lilly control of a company
that negotiates drug prices with health insurance plans. The agency's
request could delay the acquisition. The companies will face a 10-day
waiting period after Lilly complies with the request for more
information, unless the FTC decides to waive the waiting period. Lilly
said it would provide the requested information promptly.
Some MCI Calls Disrupted After Accident
A construction crew sliced through a fiber optic cable on Wednesday,
interrupting MCI long-distance telephone calls between Washington and
New York. The MCI Communications Corp.'s network immediately rerouted
calls around the cut near Princeton, N.J. The cut was under repair, an
MCI spokesman, Jim Collins, said. The incident occurred when a crew
working at a railroad yard cut through a pipe containing the fiber
optic cable, Collins said. Officials of the AT&AMP;T Corp. and the
Sprint Corp. said the cut did not affect their long-distance
operations. MCI, based in Washington, is the nation's second-largest
long-distance company.
Fiat To Furlough Fewer Workers Than It Had Planned
The Italian auto maker Fiat SpA said on Wednesday that it had reached
an agreement with unions that would allow it to lay off 2,000 fewer
employees that earlier foreseen. Originally, the company had predicted
5,000 layoffs; now the number is being reduced to 3,000. Fiat said the
change was a result of better-than-expected sales of three models --
the Delta, Tipo, and Uno -- in European markets. Fiat agreed with
unions in February to temporarily lay off 5,000 workers this year.
While laid off, workers receive job training as well as a large portion
of their salaries. The reduction in planned layoffs will mainly affect
Fiat operations in northern Italy.
Capsure Holdings Corp., Chicago, an oil and gas concern, said it would
acquire Universal Surety of America, a property and casualty insurer,
for $32 million in cash and common stock.
DT Industries, Lebanon, Mo., agreed to acquire Advanced Assembly
Automation Inc., Dayton, Ohio. Both companies are makers of automated
production equipment. Terms were not disclosed.
Mid-America Apartment Communities Inc., Memphis, an owner of apartment
units, filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for the sale of 3 million common shares and agreed to buy
$39 million of apartments.
