Defiant Sharon fails to convince US to drop Arafat
Israel Prime Minister Ariel Sharon failed to convince US President
George W. Bush to "boycott" Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and rely
on other Palestinian leaders for peace negotiations.
After their fourth meeting since Bush took over the White House a year
ago, late on Thursday, the two leaders emerged with different views on
how the Middle East peace process should evolve.
For Sharon, Arafat "is not and never will be a partner. He's out of
play," The prime minister called for an "alternative Palestinian
leadership."
Bush, on the other hand, agreed on keeping Arafat under pressure, but
stopped short of questioning his credentials as the representative of
the Palestinian people.
"I assured the prime minister that we would continue to keep pressure
on Mr. Arafat to convince him that he must take serious, concrete, real
steps to reduce terrorist activities in the Middle East," Bush said
during a joint press conference after his meeting with Sharon.
Before the meeting, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Bush would
"make clear that the United States will remain engaged in the region
and remain engaged with the Palestinian Authority" headed by Arafat.
But Sharon repeated his views at a press conference after his meetings
with Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney.
"More pressure must be put on Arafat," he said, "because it can
accelerate the emergence of an alternative leadership, because Arafat
is directly responsible for the suffering of the Palestinian
population."
"This process will take a while, but the longer Yasser Arafat remains
out of play the quicker it will take," he stressed, suggesting that the
Palestinian leader should be circumvented.
"It's possible to speak with other Palestinians like I have done," said
Sharon, referring to his first meeting Wednesday with three top
Palestinian officials, including Palestine Legislative Council
president Ahmad Qorei and the PLO's number two leader, Mahmud Abbas.
"These Palestinians requested that I meet with them again on my return
from the United States," said Sharon, adding: "I've accepted it as part
of the pressure that must be exerted on Arafat."
Sharon said Israel "has no intention of getting physical with Yasser
Arafat," but stressed that the Israeli army would continue to keep
Arafat under virtual house arrest in the West Bank town of Ramallah,
where Israeli tanks surround his headquarters day and night.
On that issue, the prime minister said, "there was no criticism from
the United States."
However, Israeli Defense Minister, Binyamin Ben Eliezer, who was also
visiting Washington Thursday, told reporters that Bush's national
security adviser Condoleezza Rice had a different take on Arafat's
confinement.
"Rice believes that keeping Arafat in Ramallah could have the opposite
effect of strengthening rather than weakening him," Eliezer said.
The Israeli official, who also met here with Cheney and with Defense
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, said he had "warmly recommended the
Americans to focus all their efforts in establishing a dialogue with a
group of Palestinians in Arafat's entourage."
"Only Arafat can fight (against terrorism)," Eliezer said, "but he
doesn't want to, while other political officials would like to, but
can't. That's why pressure from the United States and Egypt is so
important."
