India's Investment Outflow Norms Eased 
The Indian government has eased the norms governing Indian corporates'
investment abroad to make better use of its increasing foreign exchange
reserves, a government official said today.
India's foreign exchange reserves have touched the 28.5 billion us
dollar mark and the government has been urged to put the foreign
exchange earnings to productive use.
Under the new regulation, authorized dealers (ADs) could invest in
overseas joint ventures and wholly-owned subsidiaries abroad up to a
maximum of 15 million US dollars. The ADs can make these investments
abroad from balances in exchange earners foreign currency (EEFC)
accounts without referring to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
"Such investments would be permitted without reference to the norms and
guidelines in the existing policy on investments overseas," said a
Finance Ministry news release.
Presently, the RBI allows overseas investments up to 4 million US
dollars based on the export track record of a corporate house. It has
also been stipulated that the investable funds should not cross 25
percent of the export earnings, accrued in a block of three years.
Furthermore, the government in its new policy has also allowed the
corporates to invest 50 percent of funds raised through global
depository receipts (GDRs) in joint ventures and subsidiaries abroad.
Such investments will also not be subjected to the obligation of making
equal inward remittances over five years to neutralize the impact.
Besides, a special interministerial committee headed by the Commerce
Secretary will consider investments by Indian corporates with amounts
exceeding 15 million US dollars abroad. The funds over and above 15
million could be either funded through balances in EEFC accounts or
GDRs. Investments with a sizable GDRs AND EEFC component will be given
priority by the special committee.
The liberalization of outward investments by Indian companies is also
indicative of the government's policy to gradually move towards full
convertibility of the rupee.
