U.K. Trade Mission to Visit Tanzania 
A British trade mission will arrive here Thursday for a week-long tour
of Tanzania to explore business opportunities or reinforce existing
contacts, British commerce officials said here Wednesday.
The team made up of the delegates of 10 British companies will visit
Tanzanian firms during November 12-17, officials at the Commercial
Section of the British High Commission told Xinhua in Dar es Salaam.
The mission will come after making a business trip to Kenya, the
officials said.
The British trade mission, the third this year, will be led by the
Birmingham Chamber of Commerce, one of the largest in Britain, which
paid a successful visit to Tanzania last November.
In April, the Industrial Development Board of Northern Ireland mission
visited Tanzania, followed by the Sussex Chamber of Commerce delegation
in July.
The Birmingham Chamber of Commerce, established in 1813, provides a
vital role in helping the business community in Britain to pursue
overseas opportunities.
David Frost of the chamber will be accompanying the representatives of
the wide-ranging companies as the Mission Manager.
British trade officials said companies taking part in the mission
include Ashville Trading, which provides boarding school education and
English language training; Huntleigh Healthcare, manufacturers of
textile recyclers; Orchard International, which produces domestic
appliances and Property Owners of London Ltd., which engages in project
management and property investment.
Other companies include Red Dragon Rail, which produces rehabilitated
and new railway rolling stock, Regentsgold (Design) Ltd., manufacturers
of reproduction furniture; Skatoskalo, a producer of internal tube
cleaning equipment, as well as Tansales (London) Ltd., which makes
electrical goods for construction industry.
Britain remains one of Tanzania's leading trading partners. Statistics
released by the British High Commission indicated that the European
country's exports to Tanzania in 1997 amounted to 77 million Pounds
while Tanzania exported goods valued at 33 million Pounds to Britain.
