Gore upbeat on thawing of Sino-US ties 
US Vice President Al Gore gave an upbeat assessment of his
groundbreaking visit to Beijing Wednesday and said Chinese President
Jiang Zemin's state visit to Washington was all-set for the autumn.
"Our discussions were productive, friendly, searching and above all
wide-ranging...and proof positive of the commitment of Washington and
Beijing to expanding their relationship," Gore told a media briefing.
After meetings with Premier Li Peng and Jiang he confirmed the Chinese
president would travel to Washington in the autumn and said final
preparations for the visit could now get underway.
The main purpose of Gore's landmark visit to Beijing was to prepare an
exchange of state visits by US President Bill Clinton and Jiang at the
end of 1997 and early 1998 which would cap the current thaw in
relations.
But the two sides also discussed three major outstanding issues in the
often-troubled relationship -- allegations that China planned to
influence US policy with political contributions, China's treatment of
dissidents and continued trade obstacles to China's markets.
"I made it very clear that this (illegal contribution) would be very
serious indeed" if proven to be true, Gore said, adding that Li had
himself raised the question and repeated Chinese denials.
However, Gore also underlined that "this issue should not affect the
Sino-US relationship," in a clear attempt to prevent one single issue
from clouding the whole relationship, as has frequently occured in the
past.
Gore is the most senior US official to visit Beijing since the 1989
crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations sent ties plummeting. After a
slow recovery, a culmination of the issues of Taiwan, human rights and
trade then sent relations into freefall in early 1995.
Only in November did the two sides finally agree to put the
relationship on a more even footing and work for the development of
overall ties.
On the thorny issue of human rights, which has threatened to derail
ties on a number of occasions, Gore said that China's top leadership
had been more "receptive" on human rights issues during his two days of
meetings.
Responses from Jiang and Li were "better than it has been in the past.
I think we are finding ways to communicate more effectively with
Chinese leaders on this topic," Gore said, adding that specific cases
had been raised during the meetings.
"I repeated President Clinton's message that we seek real progress on
human rights, not confrontation," Gore said.
But he warned that Washington would not roll over on the issue, saying:
"On these issues America's voice would not and will not be muted."
On trade, both Jiang and Li gave assurances that Beijing would take
further measures to open its market to US exports and reduce the large
US trade deficit, and the government earlier showed such intentions by
awarding 2.2 billion dollars of contracts to US firms.
"There are still serious and systemic obstacles to American companies,"
Gore said, adding that he "did not pull any punches" on the topic.
Citing a US trade deficit with China of 39.5 billion dollars, Gore said
discussions about the two countries' methods for calculating the trade
balance went into significant detail.
But "there is no disagreement that it (the deficit) is large and that
it is growing," he said.
However, two senior US congressman visiting Hong Kong gave a clear
indication that the deep divisions between Beijing and Washington were
a long way from being healed.
Newt Gingrich, speaker of the House of Representatives, warned "much of
the world will be watching over the next year" to see whether China
would meet its pledge to give Hong Kong autonomy under Beijing's
sovereignty.
Separately, Douglas Bereuter, chairman of the house sub-committee on
Asia and Pacific affairs, told reporters China would be shunned by US
investors if it broke its vows to Hong Kong.
Their comments came only hours after Beijing's official
English-language China Daily newspaper condemned the Hong Kong
Reversion Bill, recently passed by the House of Representatives, which
calls for the US to unleash economic sanctions if Beijing violates its
promises.
It said the Hong Kong Reversion Bill was "wanton interference in
China's internal affairs," which revealed "once again, the ugly
hegemonic mentality of some members of the US Congress who want to lord
it over the world."
