Discovery set to release Hubble "in good shape" 
The Hubble space telescope is "in good shape," a NASA spokesman said
Tuesday a few hours before the astronauts aboard the space shuttle
Discovery were set to release it.
The 12-tonne device -- patched up and improved during the course of
five spacewalks totaling 33 hours, 11 minutes -- should operate
smoothly until the next repair mission in 1999, the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration said.
Late Tuesday NASA had considered holding a sixth spacewalk to check a
tracking device allowing the telescope to orient itself toward a
particular celestial object. But engineers decided it was unnecessary.
At the end of their last walk, during which they reinforced parts of
Hubble's insulation cover, astronauts Mark Lee and Steve Smith tidied
up the shuttle's cargo bay.
Lee and Smith patched up some tears in the outer covering of the
telescope using wire and clips as makeshift bandages.
"You have done a superb job," said a NASA official back in Houston,
Texas, after the two astronauts returned to the shuttle ending a five
hour, 17 minute spacewalk.
When the crew of the Discovery first began to service the telescope
February 13, they noticed nicks and tears in its insulation caused by
temperature extremes in its orbit around the earth.
Four improvised patches were applied during the fourth spacewalk early
Monday, but a fifth outing was deemed necessary to complete the task,
replacing insulation covers to some of the Hubble's lower compartments.
It was the second time the Hubble telescope was visited by the shuttle
after it was placed in orbit, also by the Discovery, in late 1990. In
1993 astronauts corrected a faulty lens on the Hubble.
Late Tuesday, Steve Hawley is set to seize Hubble with Canadian-made
mechanical arms and disengage it from the special rotating platform it
has rested on during the operations.
The telescope is then set to be lifted above the shuttle and released
before Discovery slowly drifts away.
The ground crew has run tests and verified that most of the instruments
aboard Hubble work. But NASA must wait several weeks before astronomers
will know if the two major additions to Hubble -- a spectrometer and a
spectrograph -- are functioning properly.
Hubble is set to be released about 15 kilometers (10 miles) higher than
its previous altitude. Discovery will place it 580 kilometers (360
miles) above the Earth so that it can wait the next mission without
being pulled into the upper layers of the atmosphere and destroyed.
Discovery took off for its 10-day mission February 11 at Cape
Canaveral, Florida. It is expected to return there for a predawn
landing -- the ninth in the US space shuttle program -- on Friday.
