UN Fact Finders Complete Mission in Nigeria 
The four-man fact-finding team of the United Nations which concluded
its two-week visit to Nigeria is scheduled to leave for New York this
morning, according to local press reports today.
The team has received the cooperation of the Nigerian military
government and diverse public opinion moulders during its tour of the
country, said team leader Justice Atsu Koffi Amega, expressing
happiness that the assignment of the team was successfully completed.
However, Amega told a news briefing here last night that "the problems
of human rights are terrible and political problems are terrifying" in
Nigeria, the reports said.
But he gave no details of the team's findings, saying "the mission will
continue its work in New York and submit its report to the United
Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali".
The U.N. mission to Nigeria began in Lagos on March 9. During its tour
in the country, the team had an audience with Nigeria's Head of Dtate
Dani Sbacha on April 11.
The mission met ministers and officials of foreign affairs, internal
affairs, justice, the federal capital territory, the secretary to the
federal government, the chief justice, judges as well as the lawyers
for the prosecution and defense in the Ogoni trial.
It also met human rights community and pro-democracy groups.
"The mission was able to gather relevant facts and information with
regard to the two terms of reference, namely, the trial and execution
of Ken Saro-Wiwa and others as well as the transitional program for
restoring civil and democratic rule in Nigeria," Amega said.
At last night's news briefing, Amega also gave a brief account of their
meeting with political detainees, especially the presumed winner of the
annulled June 12, 1993 election held in the country, Chief Moshood
Abiola, whom they met in the capital of Abuja on April 11.
Besides Abuja and Lagos, the UN mission also visited the states of
Enugu, Osun, Kano and Rivers, and met with administrators, government
officials, local non-governmental organizations and groups, and
traditional rulers.
