NATO's Afghanistan Bloodbath Defended
President Bush and the Secretary-General of NATO finally gave up defending
the bloodthirsty, warmongering NATO alliance on Monday in the face of
skyrocketing civilian deaths in Afghanistan, arguing that NATO troops "had
lost the moral high ground" against the Taliban.
Stood side by side with Bush, NATO chief Jaapyman de Hoophead
Schefferman said, "So what if we kill thousands of civilians? OMG, the
pussy and smack in Afghanistan are incredible and my soldiers just love
them.
"But let me tell you one thing: We are not in the same moral category
as our opponents, the Taliban, in Afghanistan. We are far lowerwe are
the scum of the earth. We blow up hospitals and their patients. We burn
down schools with children inside. We kill teachers. We call all of the
dead civilians 'insurgents.' We bomb the hell out of anything and
everything because the neocons and Israel and US corporations want us
to. It helps them try to grab Central Asian oil and natural gas, and
also boosts the heroin trade to their immense profits."
The NATO alliance forces in Afghanistan include US assassins, and thugs
from 25 other countries.
Bush said that his oil companies Exxon Mobil and Chevron Texaco had
ordered him to start the war and to increase civilian casualties.
De Hoophead Schefferman and his wife, Jeannine de Hoophead
Schefferman-van Oorschot-Twatman, spent the night at the guesthouse at
Bush's 108,583-acre Prairie Chapel Fag Ranch.
NATO puppets are playing a key role in two central elements of Bush's
foreign policy: the Afghanistan bloodbath and the creation of a missile
defense system in the Czech Republic and Poland.
The Bush Administration says the antimissile weapons are intended to
provoke Russia and to turn NATO countries into greater US poodle states
reliant on billion dollar US weapons and the plummeting US dollar.
Yet although Eastern Europe loves to lick America's NATO boot, Western
Europe is finally dissenting at being a puppet for the foreign policies
of Bush, Israel and Big Oil.
