Delors keeps silent on French presidential plans 
Jacques Delors, winding up his last EU summit as European Commission
chief Saturday, declined to reveal whether he intended to run as French
president amid persistent rumours here that he would.
French President Francois Mitterrand, also in the western German town
of Essen for the European leaders meeting, said Saturday he was not
keeping Delors' plans a secret, he just did not know.
Delors on Saturday repeated earlier statements that he would let it be
known before Christmas whether he would stand as a presidential
candidate next May when Mitterrand retires after 14 years in office.
Members of several delegations at the European Union summit said
Saturday they were convinced Delors would run for the French presidency
and announce his decision Sunday.
His mandate as commission president ends in January.
As the favoured Socialist candidate, Delors is leading in the polls. He
said earlier this week he had made a decision on the presidential poll
but would not specify whether he would run.
Refusing again to reveal his decision on Saturday, Delors sparked
speculation that he would announce his candidacy on French television
on Sunday when he is due to appear on the political 7/7 programme on
the TF1 channel.
"I made an appointment to announce my decision on January 25, but that
turned out to be too late. I therefore indicated that in the event I
would not be standing as a candidate, I would make this known before
Christmas," Delors said at the summit closing press conference.
He said he had felt under an obligation to maintain discretion over his
plans because of his functions as EC president, and that he did not
feel authorised to make "incursions into domestic politics" just
because Essen had finished.
Facing a barrage of questions from journalists, he said he would
continue to "fight for a united Europe" and said he had "lots of plans"
in that respect.
Also speaking to journalists about Delors' intentions, Mitterrand said:
"I just do not know.
"I do not make suppositions. But even if I knew, I would not tell you,"
the French head of state added with a smile.
Mitterrand praised "the qualities and the enormous determination" shown
by Delors in his role and said he would be remembered for his time as
EC president.
"The European Union partners are sad to see him go," Mitterrand said.
"He is a man who brings consensus," he said.
Heads of state and government of the 12 European Union states paid
tribute to Delors retiring after 10 years as president of the EU
executive commission.
"His name is associated with what must be the 10 most successful years
of European unification," European leaders said in the conclusions of
their summit in Essen.
They said he was the "prime mover" in the so-called Single European Act
for the free movement of goods, services, capital and people from
January 1 1993.
In helping realise "the visionary goal" of a free European internal
market he made a decisive contribution to overcoming stagnation in the
early 1980s and "imparting a new dynamism to the integration process".
"The second great achievement for which we essentially have Jacques
Delors to thank is economic and monetary union, the fundamental
grounwork of which was his," the European leaders said.
"For this, as well as the high standards he has set, the heads of state
and government meeting in the European Council would like to express
their thanks and recognition," they went on.
"His achievements for Europe will not be forgotten. President Delors
has rendered outstanding service to European unification."
