US serviceman pleads guilty to Okinawa rape
One of three US servicemen charged with raping a 12-year-old schoolgirl
in Okinawa pleaded guilty Tuesday to the crime, which has sparked mass
protests against US security links with Japan.
The two others told the district court in Okinawa that they conspired
in the assault but did not commit rape, in the first hearing of their
trial expected to last several weeks, according to press reports.
US Navy seaman apprentice Marcus Gill, 22, admitted the charges of
rape, abduction and confinement, the reports said. The two others were
identified as US Marines Rodrico Harp, 21, and Kendrick Ledet, 20.
The trial opened two weeks before US President Bill Clinton meets
Japan's Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama in Tokyo to uphold bilateral
security ties in a post-Cold War era, against a background of trade and
economic frictions.
According to the prosecution, the three servicemen caught the girl as
she returned home from shopping in a residential area in the north of
Okinawa's main island in the evening of September 4.
They hit her in the face, threw her into a rented car and raped her
after binding her limbs with adhesive tape, according to the
indictment.
The three accused are blacks, a fact little mentioned by the Japanese
media for fear of introducing another racial angle to the furore.
They were seen taken into the court, hidden behind riot police metal
shields, as some 160 people vied for the 20 public gallery seats.
Rape charges carry a sentence of up to life in prison, while abduction
and confinement carry a prison sentence of up to five years. The three
would serve any sentence in a Japanese prison.
The rape triggered unprecedented mass protests against the US military
presence, and was seen by some in the southern islands of Okinawa as a
symbol of brutal colonial behavior.
About 85,000 people demonstrated in Okinawa last month demanding
changes to the privileged status of US forces and the withdrawal of
27,000 US troops from the remote island.
Some landowners in the subtropical islands in the East China Sea have
refused to renew contracts with US forces there, prompting Prime
Minister Tomiichi Murayama to take legal action to secure the land
leases.
The whole issue could turn into a political time-bomb for the premier
as his socialist party had long opposed the US military presence in
Japan.
US Defense Secretary William Perry visited Tokyo last week and accepted
a Japanese proposal for talks on scaling back the concentration of US
forces in Okinawa. But he ruled out any reduction in the total of
47,000 US troops in Japan.
In Washington, Assistant US Secretary of Defence Joseph Nye told
reporters overnight that Perry managed to "put the Okinawa problem
behind us, or at least put it in a format where it would not burden the
president's trip."
Clinton and Murayama will meet here on November 20 after attending
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) talks in Osaka.
Okinawa, a chain of islands known as the "keystone" of the US Far East
strategy during the Cold War and Vietnam War years, accounts for 75
percent of US military facilities in Japan.
The former independent kingdom was annexed by Japan in the late 19th
century and occupied by US forces from 1945 to 1972 after fierce land
battles there in the final phase of World War II in the Pacific
theatre.
Following the mass protests, US officials have agreed to give
"sympathetic consideration" to any request for US servicemen to be
transferred into Japanese custody before indictment for "heinous"
crimes such as murder or rape.
Under an agreement on the status of forces, US military suspects are
held by US authorities until they are formally charged by Japanese
prosecutors.
