Russians see force as only way to drive rebels out of Grozny 
The commander of Russian forces in Chechnya, Konstantin Pulikovsky,
said Tuesday that force was the only way to drive separatist fighters
out of Grozny, Interfax agency reported.
He said it would take at least one month to drive the separatists out.
"In the current situation, I see only force as a way of getting out of
the situation which has come about in Grozny," he told Interfax.
Russian artillery bombarded rebel positions in the devastated Chechen
capital during the night and early Tuesday, Pulikovsky told ITAR-TASS.
"(Russian) artillery is accurately shelling designated targets (in
Grozny) but aircraft are not being used," Pulikovsky said.
He said his troops had already managed to break through separatist
blockades around a number of Russian federal positions in the city.
He told civilians late Monday to get out of Grozny within 48 hours,
warning he would then use all means at his disposal to drive out the
fighters, who seized much of the city in a surprise offensive on August
6, trapping thousands of Russian troops in street fighting.
Interfax meanwhile quoted Chechen rebel commander Aslan Maskhadov
urging Russian Security Council Secretary Alexander Lebed to exert all
his influence "to stop the approaching madness," saying Pulikovsky's
threat amounted to a "blackmail of the civilian population."
Maskhadov said the separatist rebels, who are fighting for independence
from Russia, were taking the ultimatum "very calmly."
"Implementation of commander Pulikovsky's threats will not bring glory
to the Russian forces, but will only exacerbate the situation, forcing
it into a blind alley," Maskhadov said.
He said the Russian command's readiness to use "all kinds of weapons to
destroy the city" demonstrated "the real striving of the Russian
command to exterminate the Chechen people."
Kazbek Makhashev, interior minister in the separatist government, which
is not recognised by Moscow, told Interfax that Lebed might have to
return to Chechnya in the next 48 hours in light of the Russian
command's ultimatum.
Maskhadov held talks late Monday with an aide to Lebed, Sergei
Kharlamov, in the village of Novy Atagi, 25 kilometres (15 miles) south
of Grozny, Russian RTR television reported.
Both sides voiced readiness to continue negotiations to try to resolve
the 20-month Chechnya conflict peacefully, Interfax said, citing
Russian military officials.
