Museeuw takes Paris-Roubaix in Mapei-GB clean sweep 
Johan Museeuw won the 94th centenary edition of the Paris-Roubaix
cycling classic Sunday, coming in ahead of teammates Gianluca Bortolami
(eds: correct) and Andrea Tafi to give their Mapei-GB team a clean
sweep in a breakaway finish.
Museeuw, last year's World Cup winner, won in six hours, five minutes
00sec to capture his first Paris-Roubaix title in dry and dusty
conditions and pocket the 150,000 francs first prize after the
gruelling 263.5km haul, 50km of which goes over cobblestones.
The Belgian appeared to have blown his chance of winning the "Hell of
the North" six kilometres out when he had a second puncture, but he was
back on the road within just 20 seconds to hit the front again ahead of
his pacemakers Bortolami and Tafi.
They both allowed Museeuw, whose average winning speed was just over 43
km/h, to take the plaudits and did not dispute the sprint as the three
came home with arms raised at the Roubaix Velodrome.
"The team manager told us I should be left to win," said a delighted
Museeuw
afterwards.
"It was incredible to get the first three places considering the bad
luck we had with punctures."
Mapei sporting director Patrick Lefevere confirmed the team tactics,
explaining: "I told them 20 kilometres from the finish. I consulted the
team boss and he wanted them to cross the line together, but it wasn't
possible."
The race was a triumph for those tactics in that the win was achieved
despite half a dozen punctures suffered by its leading members in the
second half of the race.
As well as Museeuw's brief misfortune, last year's winner Ballerini
suffered three punctures and had to be left behind by his team after
the second. Bortolami was also held up once for the same reason.
Ballerini briefly stayed at the back of the chasing group after falling
behind the leaders, only attacking late on to break up the pack as they
pursued the front trio, a tactic which effectively sealed the race for
his teammates.
Eventually, his job done, he stepped off the gas to allow Zanini to
beat him into fourth.
It was a spectacular sacrifice by the 1995 winner, who had been well
placed in the first half of the contest to attack for a second
consecutive Roubaix title.
Ballerini had vowed never to race the course again after experiencing
heartache in 1993, when he thought he had won the event by a tyre's
breadth ahead of Frenchman Gilbert Duclos-Lassalle. But, after doing a
lap of honour, he was denied by a photo-finish which gave the race to
Duclos-Lassalle, who had also won the previous year.
After he fell back, the peleton came together with 100 km to go before
the leaders upped the tempo still further, attacking again strongly to
reduce the pack to 22.
Ballerini's selflessness was really the key to Museeuw's eventual
triumph, as the Belgian has argued in the past that the Italian has not
always been ready to play a similar team game in past races.
Stefano Zanini captured fourth spot in a sprint duel ahead of last
year's winner and fellow Italian Franco Ballerini, both coming in
two-and-a-half minutes off the pace.
Sunday's triumph gave pre-race favourite Museeuw, 30, his seventh World
Cup classic win. Last year in Roubaix, he could only manage third place
behind Ballerini and Russian Andrei Tchmil.
cw96
