French press takes fright as freesheets war heats up
France's newspapers joined with trade unions Tuesday to try to repel a
Scandinavian invasion, as a Swedish press group moved to add titles in
Paris and Marseille to its international media empire.
For the second day running, Communist trade unionists scuffled with
teams attempting to distribute the free daily Metro to Parisian
commuters, while the Marseille edition left its printing plant under
police escort.
And while their print workers and van drivers took the battle against
the Scandivanian imports to the streets, France's outraged journalists
took up the defence of their paid-for papers.
"Beware of forgeries!" warned the left-wing daily Liberation, as the
turmoil in its own industry elbowed France's presidential election
campaign off the front page of many papers (although not Metro's).
"The first day of free newspapers was a dark day for the press,"
complained the Catholic paper La Croix.
"It's quick to pick up, quick to read, quick to throw out. A certain
idea of news information is being thrown in the bin," it said.
The Swedish press group Metro International on Monday targeted Paris
and Marseille for new city editions of Metro, a 24-page colour tabloid
filled with short news stories and photos from international news
agencies.
Metro already appears in distinct editions in 20 cities in 14 countries
around the world outside France and claims to have nine million
readers. It is paid for entirely by advertising revenue.
Another Scandinavian firm, Norway's Schibsted, intends to launch a
version of its similar daily, 20 Minutes, in Paris shortly.
Metro's launch provoked the fury of members of the main trade union
representing French publishing workers, the Communist CGT, who
destroyed 50,000 copies of Metro in a Marseille printing plant and
scuffled with teams handing it out in Paris.
On Tuesday, the Marseille edition hit the streets under police
protection, but trouble continued in the capital.
"Some 400 of our members intervened at all the distribution points
outside metro stations. The copies were scattered over the streets.
Compared to Monday, 10 times fewer copies were handed out," claimed a
CGT official.
Television pictures showed protesters struggling with Metro staff and
tossing the papers into the road.
The union's claim appeared overly optimistic, however: AFP reporters
arriving for work from across Paris found Metro being distributed
unimpeded at major stations.
At Marcadet-Poissoniers station in the north of the city curious
commuters grabbed Metro from a neat stack outside the entrance. In one
carriage heading towards the city centre half a dozen travellers were
reading it.
Some 200,000 copies of the Paris edition were printed beyond the reach
of CGT activists in Luxembourg overnight, Metro said. The firm hopes to
shift production to Paris and step it up to 300,000 copies if the
protest can be resolved.
The CGT threatened to bring the entire newspaper industry, including
traditional titles, to a halt on Monday if Culture Minister Catherine
Tasca does not convene a meeting to hear their complaints.
"We don't want to penalise the paid-for press, just to demonstrate what
life wouldc5#like with only the free papers and none of the paid-fors,"
Jean-Francois Ropert of the CGT's publishing section told AFP.
Tasca had earlier called on unions and press groups to sit down and
discuss their differences.
The unions and the mainstream press fear th.
"The difference between Liberation (or another big national paid-for
paper) and a freesheet is 250 journalists to 10," Liberation said. "You
are buying expertise, intelligence, context, analysis and choice.
"The freesheets look like newspapers, they have the odour and
appearance of newsprint, but the resemblance stops there," the paper
declared.
