SaturnShip-One
From a NASA press release: NASA Confirms Liquid Lake on Saturn Moon
"PASADENA, Calif. -- NASA scientists have concluded that at least one
of the large lakes observed on Saturn's moon Titan contains liquid
hydrocarbons, and have positively identified the presence of ethane?
""Detection of liquid ethane confirms a long-held idea that lakes and
seas filled with methane and ethane...... Methane and...
Pulling the Cloud over our eyes
Now, as half the world begins to watch the 13th Paralympic Games in
Beijing, the other half remains on the sofa still digesting its
glorious meal that was the 2008 Beijing Olympic games. What a meal it
was too we were treated to a great starter, a fantastic main and a
sumptuous desert, all served up in the fantastic birds nest stadium. We
can now only wait with baited breathe before our next O...
Funny story: Letterman Too Late top five Obama jokes
Letterman Too Late top five Obama jokes
Black Humor: Barack Hussein Obama - President of The United States of
A. #5. The additional benefit will be death of Osama Bin Laden, from
laughing his behind off. #4. Hillary Clinton asks Supreme Court: Can I
marry Obama? Yes you can, but you must divorce Bill first. #3. Why Jew
voted for Barack Hussein Obama? He has mistaken Obama Hussein Barack
for Kadima Ehud Barack.
Sex News: Nipple Shots Of Sarah Palin Could Make You $100,000 Richer!
We have been witness to the incredible story of the first female
Republican Party VP choice, Sarah Palin, (current Alaskan Governor),
for less than 2 weeks now and both America and the World are still
awestruck! She's 44 and she's hot! Not too young, not quite older, but
just right, with that magnetic attraction men must hide in the presence
of the wife or girlfriend or no sex tonight guys! Learn...
Political Campaign Songs - "Saracuda"
Political Campaign Songs - "Saracuda"1970s rock band Heart, led by
sisters, Ann and Nancy Wilson have made it perfectly clear to the
Republican Party that they do not want them using their 1977 hit song
"Barracuda" as Gov. Palin's theme song. The sisters reportedly stated
that if the Republican vice-presidential candidate, who prides herself
as being a hockey mom, a moose hunter, an ice fisher...
