NZ anxious for credit for beating Sri Lanka
New Zealand cricket captain Stephen Fleming hoped Monday his team would be
given credit for their resounding victory over Sri Lanka in the first test
at Carisbrook here.
The Kiwis completed a clinical dissection of the tourists when
dismissing Sri Lanka late in the third session on the fourth day for
328 to give them a comprehensive win by an innings and 36 runs.
It was the seventh time New Zealand have secured a test win by an
innings margin.
Fleming believes the time has arrived for the New Zealand team to be
judged solely on their own merits, and not those of the opposition.
New Zealand outplayed a disappointing Sri Lanka in all facets of the
game after amassing a mammoth 586 for seven declared before their
bowlers took over to clean out the tourists for 222 and 328.
"I think you can forget about Sri Lanka and see how well we played,"
Fleming, 23, told a press conference.
"For a long time we've looked at the opposition and judged ourselves on
their performance.
"Our performance here put Sri Lanka away. We did not give them a chance
to get into the game.
"Perhaps it looked as if Sri Lanka weren't up to it but they are a good
side. We didn't let them play.
"We batted well, Bryan Young (who scored 267 not out) exceptionally so,
and we bowled extremely well," Fleming said.
"Our performance dominated the whole match. We didn't let Sri Lanka
play, and that's the credit we deserve."
Sri Lankan cricket coach Bruce Yardley wants to harness not inhibit the
batting riches he has to work with.
Sri Lanka sparked for a time in their second innings of 328, thanks
almost solely to a fireworks display from wicketkeeper Romesh
Kaluwitharana, who rocketed his way to 103 from as many deliveries
after the tourists were 115 for five.
Kaluwitharana's blazing bat could not deny New Zealand a deserved win,
but Yardley appreciated the boldness of his actions.
He was less impressed with some of his specialist batsmen, who totally
ignored the team's requirements after beginning the fourth day Monday
on 37 without loss -- 327 runs short of making New Zealand bat again.
"There was a lack of concentration and a lack of desire. We found ways
of getting out that were quite silly. For example two of our batsmen
got inside edges when they couldn't get their bats out of the way of
the ball," Yardley, a former Australian test player, said.
"It's all about shot selection. Our guys have to become tougher at test
level. If a ball is wide and swinging further away you don't just swing
your bat at it.
"You are supposed to play a shot, not just swing your bat and hope it
goes somewhere."
Yardley would be the last person to suggest the Sri Lankan batsmen
leave their attacking strokes hidden under their hotel beds, but
boldness often translated into badness in this test for the tourists.
Kaluwitharana's belligerent innings of controlled aggression,
containing 13 fours and two sixes as he spared no expense making the
Kiwis pay for their previous dominance, was the sort of frontal assault
normally reserved for the one-day arena.
But his determination not to compromise his approach was refreshing as
the match entered its final stages.
"I always bat like that whether it is in a one-dayer or a test match,"
the 26-year-old said after his second test century to follow his maiden
hundred scored against Australia in Colombo in the 1992-93 season.
He and Chaminda Vaas, who made a classy 57 himself, put on a Sri Lankan
record seventh wicket partnership against New Zealand of 137 in just
109 minutes.
Kaluwitharana was finally dislodged when teenaged left arm spinner
Daniel Vettori held on to a firmly struck straight drive which the
batsmen failed to keep down.
"I was disappointed to get out because I wanted to bat the whole day,"
Kaluwitharana said.
"Vaasie was batting very well and I thought we could've batted for
another session or two."
