Round-up: Zimbabwe's New Cabinet Welcomed
Most Zimbabweans Sunday expressed their welcome over the new cabinet
appointed by President Robert Mugabe on Saturday.
Mugabe announced a 19-member cabinet which saw 16 ministers being left
out. A number of respected personalities were appointed cabinet
ministers in the new line-up.
The new ministers came only from the ruling Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) led by Mugabe.
In the parliamentary election on June 24 and 25, ZANU-PF got 62 seats
with a narrow victory while the country's largest opposition Movement
for Democratic Change (MDC) won 57 seats.
Speaking on Sunday, MDC President Morgan Tsvangirai welcomed the new
cabinet, saying it is full of technocrats and respectable personalities
unlike the previous one which mostly consisted of Mugabe's
praise-singers.
Talking about the exclusion of the MDC, he said his party never
expected to be included in the new cabinet because Mugabe had said he
would not include any MDC member in his cabinet.
MDC needs at least five years to prove itself, he said.
Some members of the business community also welcomed the cabinet which
included well-known faces in the business circle.
President of the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce Nhlanhla Masuku
said the line-up is encouraging, but what matters is that the new
cabinet should deliver.
"The people demand action and the implementation of policies that would
rescue the economy and benefit all and not just certain sections," he
said.
Meanwhile, political scientist of University of Zimbabwe John Makumbe
said Mugabe's new cabinet is a welcome development for the country's
future.
The cabinet which saw several ZANU-PF stalwarts being dropped and new
faces being included in the line-up is clearly based on merit, he said.
In the eyes of ordinary people in Harare, Mugabe has instilled
confidence to the nation.
It is good for the nation that some former cabinet ministers who had
been implicated in corruption activities were left out of the cabinet,
said street cleaner Jacob Banda.
He said although the appointment of the new cabinet is not a guarantee
that the nation's economic hardships would end, the president had
honored calls by Zimbabweans that new blood should be injected in the
government.
"Many people had lost hope of ever improving their lifestyles but with
the new cabinet in place, there is hope that ahead of the tunnel there
could be light," he added.
Jethro Mpofu, a student of University of Zimbabwe, said he had
confidence in the new cabinet which he described as made up of "
professional and intelligent" people.
"There are competent people there and I feel this is the best cabinet
line-up to emerge since independence," he said.
But residents of Bulawayo, the country's second largest city, expressed
mixed feelings over the new cabinet, which some people described as
"very professional" and some described as disappointed. Still others
said "their main worry is the unity of the country."
