Israel has proposed a Golan Heights troop withdrawal over four years as
part of a peace treaty with Syria, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said
in remarks broadcast Wednesday.
It was the first time Israel went on the record concerning a timetable
for a troop withdrawal from the Golan, captured from Syria in the 1967
Mideast war.
``Eighteen months is what the Syrians are recommending and we are
suggesting four years,'' Peres told the U.S. television network PBS.
Portions of the interview were aired by Israel radio.
An Israeli Foreign Ministry official said it was not clear whether
Israel has already proposed the four-year pullout to Syria or whether
Peres was ``saying this to create some momentum in negotiations.''
In the past, Israel proposed a withdrawal taking up to eight years,
said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Syria has objected to a lengthy withdrawal and hasn't committed itself
in public to the 18-month pullout mentioned by Peres.
Syria demands that in exchange for peace, Israel give back all of the
plateau overlooking northern Israel.
Israel has never said publicly how far it is willing to withdraw. But
in far-reaching statements in the past few days, Peres has said the
Golan was Syrian territory and that Israel would have to give back the
heights if it wanted to achieve a comprehensive peace in the Middle
East.
In the PBS interview, Peres also said the withdrawal was just one of
several issues being negotiated. The two sides are also talking about
the nature of peace offered by Syria and security arrangements after a
troop pullout.
Israeli-Syrian peace talks began in 1991, but there was no progress
until earlier this month, when the two sides reached agreement on broad
outlines for security arrangements.
Israeli and Syrian military officers are expected to resume talks in
mid-June in Washington.
Dennis Ross, Washington's Middle East coordinator, was expected in the
region by Sunday, to be followed by U.S. Secretary of State Warren
Christopher next week.
Christopher is expected to help prepare the agenda for the officers'
talks, the Israeli Foreign Ministry official said.
Meanwhile, an Israeli Justice Ministry team has been given until Aug.
31 to draft a bill for a national referendum on a peace treaty with
Syria, including a Golan withdrawal, ministry spokeswoman Etty Eshed
said.
The team, headed by Assistant Attorney General Shlomo Goberman, was
appointed on Sunday.
The bill would provide a legal basis for a referendum. Israel never
held a plebiscite.
However, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has promised Israelis a
referendum to counter arguments by his hawkish opponents who claim he
does not have majority backing for a land-for-peace deal. af-kl
