Japan's Major Parties May Not Win Majority in Election 
Neither of Japan's two largest political parties are likely to seize a
simple majority in a forthcoming race for the 500 seats of House of
Representatives next month, the Kyodo News Service reported today.
Political analysts predicted neither the Liberal Democratic Party
(LDP), the major ruling coalition party, nor the New Frontier Party
(NFP), the main opposition party, could achieve a 251-seat majority in
the general election possibly to be called on October 20.
The election will be the first in three years and three months, and
will also be the first under the new voting formula combining 300
single-seat constituencies and 200 proportional representation seats,
the report said.
The current 511-member house was elected under a multi-seat
constituency system.
Kyodo said Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, president of the LDP, was
likely to dissolve the lower house at an extraordinary Diet
(parliament) session on Friday for an early election.
Analysts said the LDP would have easy running in farm areas that used
to be its strongholds, but face hard times in urban areas due to the
ruling coalition's decision to raise the consumption tax next April.
The LDP wants to maintain its current tripartite coalition with the
Social Democratic Party (SDP) and New Party Sakigake after the election
if the three parties secure a combined majority, Kyodo said.
The LDP is also seeking the feasibility of alliance with the
soon-to-be-launched Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), which will be set
up by New Party Sakigake breakaway Yukio Hatoyama and Health and
Welfare Minister Naoto Kan. Many SDP and Sakigake candidates are
joining the DPJ.
The NFP, formed by nine parties in December 1994, is faring well in
urban areas, but will confront strong competition from the DPJ and
another opposition party, the Japanese Communist Party (JCP), analysts
say.
The SDP and Sakigake, the two smaller coalition partners, are expected
to face tough times because of their declining appeal to voters and the
decrease of members, Kyodo said.
