Personal Income, Spending Both Up 0.3 Percent in April
Americans' personal income rose 0.3 percent in April, the smallest
increase in five months, while spending kept pace, climbing by the same
amount.
The Commerce Department said Thursday the modest income gain reflected
the fact that big farm subsidies and bonuses for auto workers were
handed out in March. The spending and income increases generally were
in line with analysts' expectations and other signs of moderate
economic growth.
In another report, the Labor Department said new claims for state
unemployment insurance rose by 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 389,000
last week, the highest in four months. New claims for jobless benefits
shot up by 13,000 the previous week.
The department will announce May employment figures Friday.
The government reported Wednesday that the economy slowed dramatically
in the first three months of 1995, as gross domestic product rose 2.7
percent after surging 5.1 percent in the fourth quarter last year.
Stocks vaulted to record highs Wednesday, powered by investor
enthusiasm over a stronger dollar and the evidence of slow but steady
growth.
The Commerce Department said Thursday that disposable income _ income
after taxes _ fell 0.7 percent in April after gaining 0.5 percent the
previous month. The April drop in disposable income was due to higher
tax payments required by a 1993 law, the department said.
The department also revised its spending figure for March to up 0.7
percent, instead of a previously estimated rise of 0.5 percent. The
income gain in March was revised from 0.6 percent to 0.5 percent.
Consumer spending, representing two-thirds of the nation's economic
activity, helped fuel the rapid expansion in the economy but has tailed
off since last year's spree in the wake of seven increases in interest
rates by the Federal Reserve.
April's increase in income was the smallest since it was unchanged last
November.
The combination of incomes and spending meant that Americans' savings
rate _ savings as a percentage of disposable income _ fell to 4.3
percent in April from 5.2 percent the previous month. The savings rate
is the lowest since November when it was 4.1 percent.
Income rose to dlrs 6.01 trillion in April and spending was at dlrs
4.82 trillion.
Private wages and salaries, the most closely watched component of
income, increased at a dlrs 19.5 billion annual rate in April compared
with a dlrs 4.1 billion advance in March.
Government wages and salaries rose at a dlrs 0.6 billion rate in April,
down from a dlrs 1.2 billion gain the previous month.
On the spending side, outlays for big-ticket durable goods such as cars
and appliances declined 2.4 percent in April to a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of dlrs 540.8 billion. Spending on non-durable goods such
as food and fuel rose 0.1 percent to dlrs 1.131 trillion. Spending on
services rose 0.5 percent to dlrs 1.982 trillion.
The income and spending figures were not adjusted for inflation. When
adjusted, disposable incomes fell 1.1 percent in April, while spending
slipped 0.1 percent.
