Bank Of England Governor Mervyn King is a Queen, Says Fed Chairman Ben
Bernanke
During last night's appearance on the American David Letterman Show,
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke let slip that Bank of England (BOE) Governor,
Mervyn King, enjoys wearing women's clothing.
While talking about his earlier years Bernanke said that he and King
had adjoining rooms at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
while presiding there as economics' professors.
"On several occasions, I walked into King's room only to find him
dressed as a woman."
Letterman leapt in, "So King is a Queen then?" A ruffled Bernanke
replied, "He enjoys cross-dressing. I have no idea whether he's gay. I
believe Mervyn recently married."
This morning the City is agog with the news. 60-year-old King has
responded to Bernanke's allegations with the words, "No Comment!"
Meanwhile, the story is unraveling quickly.
His predecessor, Sir 'Eddie' George, commented, "On several occasions,
King arrived at meetings with mascara around his eyes but I presumed
this was due to his previous evening's amateur theatrics."
But BOE Monetary Policy Committee Member, Charles Bean, made a damming
statement.
"For some months King has attended Policy meetings wearing women's
clothing. This has upset a number of Committee members. So much so,
that Sir John Gieve and Rachel Lomax have recently resigned."
Another Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) associate and good friend,
Professor David Blanchflower, said, "It goes back to the days when
Mervyn was a student at King's College, Cambridge. He cultivated a
fascination for women's clothing then.
"Until recently, he has been able to control these tendencies but the
'Northern Rock' debacle, along with the growing UK inflationary
uncertainties, has triggered his deviancy again."
Sex psychologist, Lucy Wang, explained, "When people are under
sustained stress they may react in different ways. Some will turn to
alcohol or drugs; others to excessive sex or exercise. Cross-dressing
is King's way of dealing with the pressure he's under. Perhaps, being a
woman, makes him feel more relaxed and in control."
Not since FBI chief, J Edgar Hoover, has the world been rocked by such
a scandal.
Bean continued, "At MPC meetings Mervyn will wear large fake breasts
covered by a long stripy dress. He wears red high-heeled shoes and a
long flowing blond wig. Mervyn loves painting his fingernails green and
adores red lipstick. I believe his favourite perfume is 'Poison'.
Committee members call him Mabel. He's nicknamed 'Merv the Perv!"
He added, "Mabel is surprisingly attractive and could even pass for an
older Pamela Anderson. One MPC member, Paul Tucker, invited her out for
a date last week."
Professor Blanchflower continued, "Mervyn's marriage to his long-term
girlfriend Barbara Melander last year is a smokescreen. His
cross-dressing desires were already taking over his life but he
believed newfound domesticity might suppress them. He is a secretive,
sensitive and quiet man and I'm concerned how Mervyn may react to the
forthcoming media scrutiny."
