Yeltsin confirms meeting next week with Chechen rebel leader 
President Boris Yeltsin confirmed Saturday he will meet Chechen rebel
leader Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev in Moscow on Monday and expected they
would agree on an end to fighting in Chechnya, but vowed the republic
would remain part of Russia.
It will be Yeltsin's first talks with a Chechen rebel leader in the
17-month war and is seen as the best chance to date of ending the
bloody conflict that has left some 40,000 people dead.
But a spokeman for Chechen rebel leaders on Saturday accused federal
troops of trying to torpedo the talks by pushing on with a fierce drive
that on Friday captured Bamut, a symbol of the Chechen revolt, and was
now said to be closing in on Vedeno, one of the last rebels
strongholds.
The Yeltsin-Yandarbiyev meeting was announced on Friday for "probably
Monday" but neither side initially specified a date, citing security
reasons. Yeltsin's confirmation came Saturday while he was campaigning
in this northen city for the June 16 presidential poll.
"On Monday we will have discussions with all parties concerned,
including the armed forces, and I think that we will reach agreement on
a complete end to fighting," Yeltsin said.
He was quick to stress, however, that the mainly Moslem oil-rich
republic will "remain in Russia, a united and indivisible Russia."
Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev said Saturday there can be no
peace in Chechnya until the remaining rebel groups have been
eliminated, ITAR-TASS news agency reported.
He said federal forces must keep up active reconnaissance operations to
eliminate the last small rebel pockets to restore calm to Chechnya.
Rebel spokesman Movladi Udugov meanwhile charged, in an interview
Saturday with Moscow's Echo radio, that "certain Russian forces are
trying to torpedo the Yeltsin-Yandarbiyev meeting by pursuing fighting"
in Chechnya.
He said continuing the assaults can only "discredit Boris Yeltsin" and
called on federal troops to stop fighting.
A face-to-face meeting with Yeltsin has always been one of the rebels'
biggest demands.
Rebel sources cited Saturday by the Interfax agency said Moscow's
troops were moving in on the town of Vedeno, 60 kilometers (35 miles)
southeast of the Chechen capital Grozny and the last symbolic bastion
for Chechen rebels after the loss of Bamut in the southwest.
The rebels had held out in Bamut since the start of the war but Moscow
said Friday its troops had finally taken over the village, now a pile
of rubble, after a week of massive shelling and bombing.
The sources said rebels had now taken up positions in the hills around
Vedeno, and that civilians had started fleeing the town, fearing an
imminent Russian assault.
After the loss of Grozny and several key Chechen cities a year ago,
Vedeno and Bamut took on new importance as symbols of the rebels' fight
against Moscow.
Yeltsin has been under pressure to end the drawn-out Chechen
secessionist revolt ahead of the presidential poll where he faces a
strong challenge from Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov. Moscow's
hardline tactics in Chechnya have been heavily criticized both at home
and abroad and its failure to rein in the outgunned but tenacious
rebels has been used by conservatives to stir up nationalist sentiment
against Yeltsin.
But analysts have seen the meeting more as a bid to boost Yeltsin's
re-election chances than in addressing the root cause of the war --
Chechnya's desire for independence.
