Certainly the Texas-born Sheinberg, a lawyer by training, has a
decisive, if blunt, style that even admiring associates say can
sometimes border on abusiveness.
That manner may have lost him some credibility with his Japanese
superiors, one executive who has worked with Japanese companies said.
But for all his bluster, Sheinberg has also shown a capacity to build
longterm business relationships. Aside from his 35-year association
with Wasserman, there is his role as mentor and friend to the filmmaker
Steven Spielberg and the entertainment entrepreneur David Geffen. It
was Sheinberg who made the $550 million acquisition of Geffen Records
in 1989 in a deal that was completed in just four days.
The following year, Sheinberg played a crucial role in completing the
sale to Matsushita. Seeing the consolidation in the entertainment
industry, Sheinberg was eager to merge with a wealthy corporation that
could finance MCA's growth.
Thus, it came as a shock in 1991, when Matsushita quashed MCA's first
move under the new owners: a proposed $600 million acquisition of
Virgin Records. After that, Sheinberg minded the store for two years,
without seeking other deals.
At the same time, events occurred that did not favor the MCA-Matsushita
relationship. The fathers of the merger, Tanii and Hirata, left their
posts in 1992 after a corporate scandal. Meanwhile, Japan's ``bubble
economy'' was bursting.
For several years, MCA's management prepared volumes of material and
held a series of meetings with Matsushita, leaving Sheinberg hopeful
that MCA would make an equity investment of about $50 million for 20
percent of a Japanese theme-park venture that other companies would be
invited to join.
``There are not that many things that are as special to MCA as its
theme parks,'' Sheinberg said. ``It was as if we were bringing our
favored child to Mom and Dad's family house.''
At a meeting in Osaka in June, however, Matsushita's new management
spurned the child. Instead, for reasons Sheinberg said were not fully
explained, Matsushita ruled that MCA should merely present itself to
Japanese investors as the manager of the proposed themepark, rather
than an owner.
Sheinberg grudgingly acquiesced, but he is bitter, believing Matsushita
strung him along. He believes it was a relatively small investment for
potentially highly returns in a business in which MCA has had stunning
success.
Murase, the Matushita executive who directly oversees MCA, said the
company made its reasons clear.
``Matsushita's main business is electronics and the project is a
sideline for us,'' Murase said. ``If the bubble economy had not
collapsed, maybe the situation would have been better. In all of Japan,
everybody is suffering from diminished asset value. It is not the
situation to be aggressively spending money.''
Indeed, what comes through in comments from Matsushita's management is
an exasperation with MCA's desire for deals the parent company feels
are unnecessary.
The network proposal is such a case. Sheinberg and Wasserman had
requested a special meeting with the 58-year-old president, Morishita,
to discuss MCA's interest in buying 25 percent of a U.S. television
network. (Foreign companies cannot own more than 25 percent of a U.S.
broadcaster.)
The plan was a project of Wasserman, who developed it with Rand V.
Araskog, the chairman of ITT Corp., which seeks to enter the
broadcasting business.
And so, when Morishita arrived late to the meeting only to say ``I see
you've been told,'' the Americans were outraged at what they perceived
as imperious treatment.
Matsushita officials, who say they regret that their guests were
offended, offer a different interpretation. Morishita arrived late,
Murase said, because he had been attending a special board meeting
convened that morning to consider this ``sudden proposal.'' The board
meeting ran longer than expected.
According to Murase, the board rejected MCA's plan because Matsushita
was uncertain about the future of the television network business in an
era of shifting entertainment technologies. It also wondered if there
would be enough profit in network-TV production, since Universal's own
TV business is far from MCA's strongest division.
The company also feared an anti-Japanese backlash. ``When Sony bought
Columbia Pictures, the American media all said Sony bought American
culture,'' Murase noted. ``We do not want to take actions that would
cause extra controversy.''
Sheinberg said that Morishita apologized at the Osaka meeting and again
in San Francisco, when Sheinberg and Wasserman threatened to quit.
No one involved is willing to predict what will happen, just as no one
on the outside can imagine Sheinberg and Wasserman leaving jobs so
intertwined with their professional and personal identities.
As for their bosses in Osaka, ``we really hope we can recover the past
good relationship,'' Murase said. ``We are thinking about how to
recover the mutual trust.''
