U.S. F-16 Shot Down over Bosnia, Fate of Hostages Uncertain
Bosnian Serbs freed 126 U.N. peacekeepers Friday, Serb sources said,
hours after a U.S. F-16C jet fighter was shot down over Serb-held
northern Bosnia.
Bosnian Serb sources said the hostages _ about one third of the
peacekeepers held in the weeklong crisis _ were released. They were
bring taken directly to a military airport in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, to
be flown to U.N. headquarters in Zagreb, Croatia, sources in Belgrade
said.
The fate of the downed NATO pilot was unclear, but Bosnian Serb
military sources said a parachute was seen shortly before the plane
crashed into a populated area around the town of Mrkonjic Grad, about
40 kilometers (25 miles) south of the Serb stronghold of Banja Luka.
As a NATO search-and-rescue operation went into the night, spokesman
Capt. Jim Mitchell said that the alliance had an unconfirmed report
that the Serbs had captured the pilot.
The report, received through the United Nations, said the Serbs would
guarantee the pilot's safety.
If the pilot was captured alive, ``we demand his unconditional
release,'' Mitchell said at NATO's southern command in Naples, Italy.
The plane was on a routine NATO mission to monitor a NATO-enforced
``no-fly zone'' over Bosnia set up in April 1993 as part of Western
efforts to douse the war, which began in April 1992 after Bosnia broke
away from Serb-dominated Yugoslavia.
Earlier Friday, officials of the International Committee of the Red
Cross said they had promises from Bosnian Serb leaders in Pale that 377
U.N. hostages would be released shortly.
The Bosnian Serbs denied the report, then apparently gave in to
pressure from Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic in Belgrade.
Politika TV in Belgrade quoted Milosevic's office as saying the freed
126 hostages were turned over to Serbian police after appeals by
Milosevic.
Western officials had rejected any hostage deal with the Bosnian Serbs
, who had demanded an end to NATO airstrikes and other concessions.
U.N. officials in Sarajevo, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 16
of the 377 were taken by Bosnian Serb military police from a weapons
collection point northeast of Sarajevo, where they had been surrounded,
to a Serb-held town southwest of the city.
Friday's events, coupled with peace talks in Belgrade over possible
Serb recognition of Bosnian independence, suggested a struggle between
Bosnian Serb hardliners and those ready to compromise.
Downing of the NATO jet could be a move by hardliners to end any bid
toward giving in. Banja Luka is a hardliner stronghold.
Meanwhile, Milosevic held talks with U.S. envoy Robert Frasure and
Russian negotiator Alexander Zotov trying to persuade him to recognize
Bosnia in exchange for a suspension of economic sanctions he blames for
hardship in Serbia.
That would end the nationalist goal of a Greater Serbia and further
isolate the Bosnian Serb leadership of Radovan Karadzic. Milosevic is
holding out for a full lifting of sanctions.
French Prime Minister Alain Juppe said the talks were stalling. He said
``on the reciprocal recognition of Serbia and Bosnia or on other
aspects of the negotiations, we are not progressing.''
Karadzic said Friday night that he did not have complete information,
but that the F-16 had no business over Serbian territory.
``We are the masters of our skies,'' Karadzic said on Bosnian Serb
television.
NATO spokesman Mitchell said pilots accompanying the F-16 reported
seeing it hit. NATO sources said the plane was hit by a SAM-6
surface-to-air missile. Serbs are known to have SAM missile batteries
in the Banja Luka area.
Missiles were fired at two other NATO jets on Wednesday and Thursday,
but missed.
The only other NATO jet lost over Bosnia was a British Sea Harrier
downed over the eastern town of Gorazde in April 1994. The pilot was
rescued.
NATO jets attacked Bosnian Serb ammunition dumps near Pale, about 15
kilometers (nine miles) southeast of the besieged capital Sarajevo, on
May 25-26. In response, the Serbs took hundreds of peacekeepers
hostage.
U.N. officials said Friday the number of peacekeepers held by Serbs
rose to 377 with the detention of three Ukrainians around Gorazde.
In response, Britain started to boost its military force in Bosnia, and
French and U.S. forces moved into the Adriatic Sea off Bosnia.
Karadzic warned Thursday night that any effort to rescue the detained
peackeepers would end in slaughter.
