US-Japan trade dispute is seen depressing SE Asian currencies
The latest US-Japan trade row could temporarily deflate the currencies
of booming Southeast Asian economies against the US dollar, but the
medium-term prospects for the dollar are still bearish, analysts said
on Thursday.
They warned that the yen would continue climbing against the greenback
if Washington proceeded with trade sanctions against Tokyo -- a
development that could stifle Japan's economic recovery and its
investments in the region.
"While the trade issue has been quite discounted by the market,
regional currencies will move down against the dollar, currently quite
under-weighted, in the short-term," said Lionel Heng, a Singapore-based
currency strategist with the British firm Institute for Development of
Economic Analysis (IDEA).
Heng said the market however still favoured buying the yen against the
dollar in the medium-term, which he added could give further room for
regional currencies to continue rising against the greenback.
"Regional economies will want their currencies to maintain the uptrend
against the US dollar in the medium-term as an anti-inflationary
measure, especially when there is a possibility of a US interest rate
hike in September," Heng said.
The Singapore dollar has appreciated by about five percent against the
greenback in the first quarter of 1995, on top of a 10-percent rise in
1994, and the Thai baht and the Malaysian ringgit have firmed about
three percent, forex dealers here said.
The Indonesian rupiah however depreciated two-to-three per cent against
the US dollar between January and March, they said.
The US dollar was quoted just below 84 yen in early trading here, about
three weeks after hitting a global record low of 79.75 yen in Tokyo.
The greenback rose to 24.59 Thai baht from 24.53 on Tuesday, 2.4680
Malaysian ringgit from 2.4650, 1.3927 Singapore dollar from 1.3915 and
was unchanged at 2,226 Indonesian rupiah. The forex market was closed
for a holiday Wednesday.
Analysts said the yen's appreciation against the US dollar had somewhat
slowed in recent days by a market perception that the US threat of
sanctions to open Japan's automobile market might lead to a resumption
of trade talks between the two countries.
Japan's huge trade surplus with the US was cited as the main reason for
the dollar's slump against the yen this year.
Phoon Kok Fui, the Singapore-based regional head of Japan's Yamaichi
Merchant Bank equities research department, said increased Japanese
investment flow into Southeast Asia "may not be forthcoming" if
Washington launched sanctions against Tokyo.
"Even if Japan wants to further relocate its industries in the region
due to the strong yen, they will be hampered by a worsening of economic
problems caused by the sanctions," Phoon said.
He added: "There is not much faith in the dollar for the long-term.
Even if it continues its fall below the 80 yen level, it will have a
dramatic effect on the Japanese economy."
Singapore's Banque Nationale de Paris chief dealer Samuel Leow said the
current US-Japan trade dispute could erode the US dollar's current
strength to around the 80 yen level.
"The dispute is definitely a depressing thing and could put a top on
the dollar-yen," Leow said.
