Japan credit to remain easy amid gradual recovery
Japan's Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said Tuesday the economy was
improving, but lingering problems in industrial output and employment
meant the prevailing easy credit stance should be maintained.
The EPA, in its monthly report to the cabinet, upgraded its assessment
of the economy in July, saying private-sector demand was showing "a
firmer tone."
"With improvements seen in manufacturing industries and corporate
capital investment, private demand is on its way to taking over the
role of leading the economic recovery from public demand," the EPA
said.
But the agency, whose report is regarded as the government's official
verdict on the economy, called for continuation of an easy credit
stance to ensure suatainable, long-term recovery, as well as steps to
boost domestic demand and further structural reform.
"The government should maintain the current easy monetary policy to
enhance and sustain the strength of the economic recovery and bring the
economy to a path of stable growth in the medium- and long-term," the
EPA said.
"The government should also promote domestic demand expansion, the
resolution of bad debts problems at financial institutions, effective
use of land and deregulation and various other economic reforms," it
said.
Financial markets have been sensitive to the possibility of an increase
in Japanese interest rates following recent indications of
strengthening economic recovery, notably data showing an annualised
12.7 percent economic growth in the three months to March.
The Bank of Japan cut its key discount rate to a record low 0.5 percent
in September, and has since reiterated that an easy credit regime was
necessary to ensure a sustainable and self-supporting recovery for the
Japanese economy.
The EPA upgraded its diagnosis of private sector capital spending,
describing it as being "in a gradual recovery trend."
"The delay in recovery of small- and mid-sized businesses capital
investment is fading," an EPA official told reporters.
But the EPA said conditions in the labour market remained severe, with
unemployment at a record high 3.5 percent, and industrial output showed
only a modest 0.3 percent growth in the three months to June when
compared with the previous quarter after 0.4 percent growth in the
three months to March.
"We still cannot see positive movements in industrial output and
employment," the official said.
The official said the limited effect of improving domestic demand on
production and the slowdown in the microchip industry were among the
factors pressuring industrial output.
