Lightkeeper `Stranded' on Deserted Harbor Island 
Wesley Pannett is an anachronism.
Isolated from the frantic pace of the city by nine miles (14
kilometers) of roiling sea, he sits on an island the length of two
football fields (180 meters) and flicks the switch to the towering
Boston Light, the Coast Guard's only manned lighthouse in the United
States.
When Boston belonged to the British, the lighthouse in Boston's harbor
saved lives and property as a beacon for sailing ships. Today,
lobstermen and pleasure boaters without radar still use it to guide
them.
Pannett and the Coast Guard acknowledge that there's little need for
his services.
``This place could easily be automated, but the reason we're here is to
maintain a presence, the symbolism of it,'' said the 28-year-old
Pannett.
When the Coast Guard announced plans several years ago to automate the
lighthouse, preservationists complained to Sen. Edward Kennedy. Kennedy
got a measure passed to keep it permanently manned.
Automation would come at a one-time cost of dlrs 35,000 to the Coast
Guard, which has taken that route with its other 475 lighthouses, said
Lt. Ron LaBrec. Instead, it pays about dlrs 13,000 for annual upkeep,
plus the salaries of three employees at about dlrs 24,000 each.
Preservationists argued that round-the-clock attention would keep the
lighthouse protected from vandals and preserve its old technology: a
huge revolving lightbulb-like lens made in the Civil War era.
``It's just so inspirational, so beautiful,'' said John Forbes of the
group Friends of the Harbor Islands. ``I've got some gorgeous pictures
of it. I camp a lot on (neighboring) Lovell's Island. I sit on the
fortifications and say to myself, `It doesn't get any better than
this.''
Pannett has mixed feelings about his job. He laughs at radio traffic
reports of Boston's rush-hour hell, but also gazes wistfully at the
lights of the city.
Isolation is sharply felt on the island: Mail comes only once a week.
And when Coast Guard colleagues delivered a Christmas tree in choppy
seas recently, they motored away from the concrete dock quickly without
time for a conversation.
``On a good day an admiral will come out, or maybe some great
great-granddaughter of a keeper in 1780. But the winter's not too
busy,'' Pannett said.
To act as lighthouse keeper at the Boston Light is to lead a farm-like
existence focused on maintaining the lighthouse generator and the
island's fire pump, boat and cistern.
Quiet winters leave Pannett time to study for Coast Guard exams, step
aerobics, weightlifting, cooking and any other diversion he can find to
ward off loneliness.
``I'm an only child so I've been used to that my whole life,'' Pannett
said. ``I could see where there are people who couldn't take it.''
