Sierra Leone Rebels Attack U.S.-Owned Mine, Threaten To Kill 
Rebels kidnapped two Britons and a local worker in an attack on a
U.S.-owned mine Friday and threatened to kill at least five Europeans
seized earlier from another mine, officials said.
Fierce fighting was continuing around the two mines, a Defense Ministry
spokesman said. He said they were ``bombing'' the area but that could
not be confirmed.
The U.S. company, Nord Resources of Dayton, Ohio, said it was
evacuating mine workers from the site.
The rebels said they would start killing hostages unless foreign
nations, particularly Britain, stop arming the military government
they've been fighting for three years, a Western diplomat said on
condition of anonymity.
The rebellion against the government of Capt. Valentine Strasser, who
seized power in 1992, has forced about 1.5 million people from their
homes. There are no estimates of deaths because much of the fighting is
in remote areas. Fighting has intensified in recent months and spread
closer to the capital Freetown.
Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that Peter White and Andrew Young
were taken hostage Friday in fighting at Sierra Rutile, a titanium
dioxide mine 80 miles (130 kms) southeast of Freetown co-owned by Nord
and by Consolidated Rutile Ltd. of Australia. It is the world's second
biggest producer of rutile, used for paint pigment.
Nord Resources said one Sierra Leone and two British nationals were
kidnapped. It said the mine was defended by local troops. It said
Sierra Rutile employs about 2,000 people including 20 expatriates, most
of whom are British, and 130 other contract personnel, mostly
Malaysian.
Rutile spokesman Philip Palmer said 300 employees -- including 30 to 40
Westerners -- and 100 Malaysians were evacuated by barge from an
Atlantic Ocean dock not far from the mine. Palmer was unsure of the
Westerners' nationalities.
Wednesday's attack took place at the nearby Sierra Leone Ore and Metal
Co., a large bauxite mine at Mokanji, 60 miles (100 kms) southeast of
Freetown, that belongs to the Swiss aluminum company Alusuisse. The
mine has 700 employees.
Diplomats in Freetown and British and Swiss government spokesmen said
between five and 10 foreigners were kidnapped, including citizens of
Britain, Germany, and Switzerland and a man with dual Australian-Swiss
nationality.
The Swiss Foreign Ministry said it was negotiating for the release of
its nationals.
A Sierra Leone official said the hostages taken Wednesday included four
Britons, five Swiss and one American, but the U.S. Embassy said no
Americans were being held.
Alusuisse spokesman Christoph Abt, speaking in Zurich, said soldiers
evacuated all the workers and their families from Mokanji by helicopter
and truck on Thursday, after government troops drove rebels from the
town.
The rebels delivered their death threats through Sierra Leonean workers
who they had captured. The message, addressed to the British High
Commission, was carried by Sheila Westwood, wife of kidnapped mine
manager James Westwood.
Britain is the former colonizer of Sierra Leone, a West African nation
of 4.5 million people settled by freed slaves from Britain, Jamaica and
the United States.
Since independence in 1961, it has suffered a slow decline marked by
coups and contested elections in which hundreds of people were killed.
The rebellion, led by Foday Sankoh and his Revolutionary United Front,
has eroded living conditions since it began in 1989, leading the United
Nations to list Sierra Leone as the world's worst place to live in
1992.
Strasser ousted another military dictator in 1992 and promised to end
the war, but has solidified his dictatorial grip.
Foreigners were not affected until last year. In March, an Irish priest
and a Dutch physician and his family were killed in an attack in
Panguma, 140 miles east (230 kms) of Freetown. In July, an Irishman and
a German were wounded in an ambush.
Two British engineers were the first foreigners taken hostage, in
November. They were allowed to make radio contact with the British High
Commission on Friday for the first time since their capture, the
Volunteer Services Overseas aid agency said.
Londoner Robert D'Cruz, 30, and Calum Murray, 24, of the Isle of Lewis
in Scotland, said they were healthy and in good spirits but missed
their families, according to the agency's spokesman Blake Lee-Howard.
On Jan. 3, a Swiss man was kidnapped by rebels who ambushed a minibus
and killed nine civilians. He has not been heard of since.
