Michael Jackson Offered Sanctuary in Hungary
Hungary has offered a new home to beleaguered pop star Michael Jackson.
Under a centuries' old law, the tiny village of Redezeny, near the
Slovenian border, is legally permitted to offer a safe haven to one
non-Magyar per year whom residents feel is being unfairly persecuted by
his or her homeland.
Although the law has rarely been taken advantage of, village elders at
their annual council meeting unanimously agreed to offer their
hospitality to the 46-year-old entertainer who has pleaded not guilty
to charges of child molestation and conspiracy.
Redezeny's controversial decision came after more raids on the
eccentric star's Neverland Ranch and his legal team's appeal to Santa
Barbara Superior Court to continue his January 31 trial date for six
weeks.
Council leader Stefan Bogadoric said: "We are aware of the gravity of
the charges against Michael Jackson but he is a man much loved in our
community and every year since 1973 the young children in our school
learn all the words of the Rocking Robin.
"To us, this Rocking Robin is a very good song and has come to be a big
part of our Christmas. We would welcome Michael to be part of our
celebrations and part of our community and to come and sing his Rocking
Robin for our children."
Redezeny, 60 minutes by train from Budapest, has a population of little
more than a thousand, a handful of shops, a bar and a junior school.
The modest cottage Jackson would share with Kobusz and Tanya Vacesz is
around 1km from the heart of the village.
Jackson attorney Robert Sanger said his client was "moved to tears" by
the offer but was confident he would be vindicated when his case came
to court.
"If it is at all possible," he added, "when Mr Jackson has his passport
returned to him I'm sure he would dearly like to visit and thank the
people of Redezeny personally."
Redezeny's first offer of sanctuary was to the mercenary commander
Albrecht von Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland and Mecklenburg, during the
Thirty Years' War in the early 17th century.
More recent candidates have included US President Richard Nixon during
his impeachment, Prince Charles of the UK and American comic Steve
Martin when he stopped being funny.
