Berlusconi sells off partial holding in television stations
Silvio Berlusconi has sold 20 percent of his media empire to a foreign
consortium, in a first move aimed at cutting his family holding to a
minority stake and end a row over his twin roles as media magnate and
political player, company officials said Thursday.
The former Italian prime minister's media holding group Fininvest
announced the multi-billion lira sale to a consortium headed up by the
German publisher Leo Kirch, the Dutch Nethold group owned by South
African industrialist Johan Rupert and Saudi Arabian Prince Al Walid
ibn Talal (Eds: correct).
"It is a very good deal for Fininvest and very good deal for those
investing in Fininvest," Berlusconi told reporters.
The sale will be organised through a rights issue of 1,800 billion lire
(around 1.125 billion dollars) at the Mediaset group, created to group
the three commercial television channels, the Publitalia subsidiary and
the programme catalogue of Fininvest, Fininvest said.
A second rights issue of 1,833 billion lire is to be reserved for
Italian investors, probably banks.
The Berlusconi family will continue with a majority stake in the
Mediaset group in the short term but its holding will eventually fall
to between 35 and 40 percent, Fininvest said.
Tunisian producer Tarek ben Ammar, a friend of the prince who took part
in the negotiations, said that the agreement had been signed late on
Wednesday and that five percent of the price had been put down
immediately.
Meanwhile Australian media magnate Rupert Murdoch, who had made an
offer, said in Sydney that he did not any longer intend to invest in
the Italian group.
Berlusconi, who had built up his Fininvest group during the last 20
years, has come under strong pressure to dispose of much of his media
interests amid criticism that he used them to boost his election
campaigns and gain political influence.
Berlusconi came from nowhere on the political scene in January 1994 to
win national elections at the head of a rightwing coalition in April
that year.
In recent months, Berlusconi searched for buyers and in May Murdoch
burst on the scene with an offer to buy all of the television
interests.
Then the prince turned up with a solid gold sword which he offered as a
token of his determination.
Berlusconi's political opponents have already said they would not
accept a "semi-sale" as solving the conflict of interests between his
role as leader of the right-wing Forza Italia political movement and
his activities as a businessman.
Ammar said: "It is the first time that a prestigious group in the
Middle East has taken part of a western communication group."
Kirch would acquire 10 percent of Mediaset, Rupert, who heads the
Richemont group, about 5.5 percent and the prince 4.5 percent, reliable
sources said.
But Ammar said that "the shareholdings are likely to change, it is only
a beginning".
Rupert and Kirch were once associated with Berlusconi in the Italian
pay channel Telepiu.
Under a second stage a stake of 20-30 percent would be sold for 1,833
billion lire to banks led by Banca di Roma which is the main creditor
of Fininvest.
Ammar said that the arrangement should be completed during the summer
because "many Italian, western or Middle Eastern banks are interested".
At the beginning of 1996 or half way through the year part of the
shares taken by the banks would be introduced into the stock market.
Berlusconi would remain in control of the group and would retain 45
percent of Mediaset.
