No. 2 Japanese Party to Call Itself `New Frontier Party' 
Japanese politics' name game may be about to become a little less
confusing.
Now, among others, there are the Liberal Party, the Liberal Democratic
Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Democratic Socialist Party.
A new name was announced Thursday -- the New Frontier Party -- but its
formation means the end of six parties and several splinter groups,
including the Liberals and Democratic Socialists.
A group of 225 opposition lawmakers forming the new party voted on the
name after hiring a panel of experts to sift through 12,000 public
suggestions.
The party, to be formally launched Dec. 10, will be Parliament's second
largest, and has a fair shot at taking power from the current ruling
coalition whenever elections are held, perhaps next year.
The current ruling group combines the Liberal Democrats and Social
Democrats, better known simply as the Socialists.
And then, the name New Frontier Party isn't set in stone.
In Japanese, it's the ``Shinshinto.''
Party public information chief Yuriko Koike first announced a more
literal translation: ``New Progressive Party.'' But another party
member who lived in the United States for 20 years, Wakako Hironaka,
suggested that ``progressive'' had connotations of left-wing ideology.
A few hours later, Koike settled on ``New Frontier Party.'' She
cautioned that the party is not necessarily linking itself with John F.
Kennedy, who used ``new frontier'' as a slogan during his presidential
term.
Shinshinto was one of five finalist names selected by the expert panel.
The others translate as Hope Party, Pure New Party, New Wind Party and
Human Party.
It's no accident that all five names share a certain vagueness about
what the new party stands for. Despite its name, the New Frontier
Party's policies have not departed from territory comfortably settled
by the conservative Liberal Democrats, who governed Japan from 1955 to
last year and returned to power this June as the largest party in a
coalition.
Kikuo Nomoto, an eminent linguist who headed the panel, conceded that
with a committee involved, it was inevitable that ``commonplace'' names
would result.
``It's difficult to pick something unique that will surprise people,''
he said in a telephone interview.
Critics might also object to the ``new'' in the party name, since
several of the party's leaders have been embroiled in money scandals
that typify old-style Japanese politics.
But the party keeps insisting that it will stand for ``unwavering
reform'' of government red tape and old-style patronage politics. That,
combined with the fresh-sounding name, is aimed at winning over voters
who say they are tired of incessant corruption.
``It's good if the image comes out strongly,'' said party legislator
Kunio Hatoyama, a former education minister.
