Calling the prosecution case against O.J. Simpson a ``rush to
judgment,'' defense attorneys drew on surprising new witness
statements, blood evidence and exhibits to drum home their contention
that the wrong man is on trial.
Defense attorney Johnnie Cochran Jr. suggested to jurors Wednesday in
Simpson's double murder trial that the rush to judgment led prosecutors
to overlook or ignore key witnesses, physical evidence and other
suspects in the June 12 knife deaths of the former National Football
League star's ex-wife and her friend Ronald Goldman.
At the same time, Cochran in the defense's opening statements sought to
replace the image of a menacing, jealous wife beater with that of a
successful, busy man who had moved past his troubled relationship with
Nicole Brown Simpson.
``This is a murder case,'' Cochran said. ``In their rush to win, they
tried to dredge up some theories to give you a motive, because they
don't have a motive.''
Cochran, for the first time, disclosed information about witnesses who
saw mysterious men at the crime scene on the night of the killings --
men one witness thinks may have been undercover police officers.
And there were more revelations, including one involving a couple who
walked past the crime scene about 10:25 p.m. and saw no bloody glove or
open gate.
Prosecutors contend the killings probably occurred about 10:15 p.m. --
the time a neighbor heard a dog's plaintive wail near the crime scene.
``They tell us this about a dog's wail,'' Cochran said, indignation
rising in his voice, ``when a man's life's is at stake.''
Some of the defense's assertions were not new just to the jury, which
sat focused on Cochran's every word, but to prosecutors, as well.
At one point, a surprised look flashed on the face of prosecutor Marcia
Clark, who then scribbled a note to a colleague.
Prosecutors later complained to Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Lance
Ito that defense attorneys obviously were withholding witness
statements from them, a violation of discovery rules.
The judge is expected to decide today what sanctions to impose against
the defense.
Earlier Wednesday, Ito ruled that television cameras could remain in
the courtroom as long as certain precautions were put in place that
would ensure that no juror's face would be sent out on the airwaves.
On Tuesday, Ito threatened to pull cameras permanently from the
courtroom because a Court TV camera accidentally picked up the face of
an alternate juror.
When trial resumes today, Cochran is expected to conclude his opening
statements, focusing on the Los Angeles Police Department's
investigation of the case and on DNA evidence.
Already, the defense attorney has countered Clark's reference to a
trail of blood -- which prosecutors contend lead to Simpson's guilt --
with trails of blood that he said the prosecution did not follow.
He said blood from inside Nicole Brown Simpson's fingernails and on her
thigh did not match Simpson's blood type or either victim's. The same
was true with blood found on a knife after the killings, he said.
Cochran told the jurors that fingerprints, palm prints and shoe prints
at the crime scene are not Simpson's.
He said the person who slashed the two victims should have been
saturated with blood, not left with the small amounts found on
Simpson's property and in his Ford Bronco.
``There is no blood where there should be blood,'' Cochran said, ``and
that is devastating proof of innocence.''
Further, he said, a close-up autopsy photo of one of Ronald Goldman's
hands show signs of a physical fight.
Contrasted with that image were snapshots showing close-up views of
Simpson's face, neck, chest, back, arms, thighs and stomach after the
killings.
At one point, Simpson stood before the jurors, showing them scars that
several knee surgeries left behind.
Cochran said arthritis and knee problems limit Simpson's physical
movement -- suggesting he could not physically have committed the
murders.
Nor, he indicated to the jury, did Simpson have a reason to murder the
victims.
Cochran told jurors about Simpson's busy schedule, which included
coast-to-coast flights, charitable fund-raisers and other concerns, and
a new girlfriend, Paula Barbieri.
The attorney portrayed Simpson as a man who grew up from modest
beginnings and never forget his background, a man who secretly gave
back to the neighborhood from where he came, a man whose generosity
extended to Nicole Brown Simpson and her family.
Since the 1989 incident in which Simpson pleaded no contest to spousal
battery, Cochran told the jury, the defendant never again physically
abused his wife.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL 2ND TAKE FOLLOWS.)
