New UN human rights envoy for DR Congo 
The new special United Nations rapporteur on human rights in the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) will inspect a prison in the capital
Kinshasa as part of her first mission to the country starting Thursday,
the UN said here.
Iulia Motoc, a 34 year-old former magistrate and professor at Bucharest
University, was scheduled to hold talks with DRC President Joseph
Kabila and members of the government, the UN said in a communique.
She will also consult non-governmental organisations, political parties
and labour union officials.
Motoc was also due for meetings with staff of the UN observer mission
in DRC and the local mission chief of the UN human rights high
commission, based in Goma in the rebel-held east of the country.
Her predecessor Roberto Garreton resigned from his post last fall after
seven years and nine missions to DRC as rapporteur to the central
African country torn by civil war.
Garreton, a Chilean lawyer, had the task of paving the way for a full
investigation into massacres carried out in the region since 1996 when
Laurent Kabila, Joseph's father, launched a rebellion that toppled the
dictator Mobutu Sese Seko in 1997.
Humanitarian sources said some 200,000 Hutu refugees from the 1994
genocide in Rwanda went missing in the then-Zaire during Kabila's
eight-month rebellion.
The United Nations investigators in Kinshasa have in the past been
hampered by stalling tactics in the DRC capital.
The vast, impoverished central African nation has been battered by
civil war and conflict over its considerable mineral resources for
years.
While the rebels are backed by Rwanda and Uganda, the Kinshasa regime
has enjoyed strong military support from Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia.
Garreton said last year people were living in terror in rebel-held
zones of DRC and that several hundreds suspected of witchcraft had been
killed.
Human rights violations, including killings, were rampant, he said.
Garreton wrote several damning reports which also lamented the lack of
political and press freedoms throughout the country.
During her current mission, Motoc will consult the DRC foreign and
justice ministers and the prosecutor attached to the principal military
assizes.
She will then report to the next session of the UN human rights
commission starting here on March 18.
Next fall she will visit DRC territories held by rebels.
