Shell kills two in Tuzla; mayor blasts UN
A shell landed in the center of the Bosnian safe haven of Tuzla late
Tuesday, killing two people, witnesses said.
The attack came only hours after the mayor of the Bosnian town, which
in recent days has welcomed more than 17,000 refugees, blasted the
United Nations for failing to stop the Serb advance on Moslem enclaves
and to protect residents in these so-called "safe areas."
The shell, which hit about 8:30 p.m. (1800 GMT), came from Bosnian Serb
hilltop positions outside the town and landed near a theater.
One of the victims was a man who had been drinking a beer at an outdoor
cafe. He died instantly while a woman died of her injuries before an
ambulance could arrive, according to an AFP reporter on the scene.
On May 25 rebel Serbs shelled the town center after NATO airstrikes,
killing 71 mostly youngsters.
Tuzla is located near mounts Majevica and Ozren whose upper slopes are
held by Serb forces.
Tuzla airport is also within reach of Serb artillery. The United
Nations Protection Force's Nordic battalion there has given shelter to
more than 6,000 refugees from the UN-declared safe haven of Srebrenica
which was overrun by the Serbs on July 11.
Tuzla mayor Selim Beslagic told a press conference Tuesday: "We asked
the Dutch why they withdrew their troops from Srebrenica" before it
fell.
"The United Nations did not protect residents of the enclave as they
had committed themselves to do. But the peacekeepers are not guilty, it
is their leaders who are."
He said that although he was bitter at the fall of Srebrenica to the
Serbs, he did not want the United Nations to withdraw from
Bosnia-Hercegovina.
"You need a change in the UN mandate in Bosnia and Srebrenica needs to
resume its status as a safe area," said Beslagic, who has been
increasingly critical of the United Nations since the Serb shelling of
Tuzla in May.
He said that in order for the United Nations to restore its
credibility, it needed to adopt a tougher approach in dealing with the
Serbs.
"The UN soldiers are being sold out just like the Bosnians," he said.
"That is in violation of human rights. Who has the right to chain UN
soldiers like dogs?"
He was referring to the Serb capture of UN troops following NATO
airstrikes on a Serb weapons depot in May and television footage
showing some of the soldiers chained at strategic sites.
On Tuesday, relief officials said that 84 people evacuated from the
hospital in Srebrenica after it fell to the Serbs had arrived in Tuzla.
They were first taken by the Serbs to another hospital in Ratunac,
north of Srebrenica, and were allowed to leave only after International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) officials held intense negotiations
with their captors.
Fourteen ICRC trucks transporting the group left Ratunac Monday evening
and rode all night before reaching Tuzla.
An additional several hundred starving men dressed in rags limped into
Tuzla Tuesday with harrowing tales of their escape from defeated
Srebrenica and charges of atrocities committed by the victorious
Bosnian Serbs.
The men, who included Bosnian soldiers and civilians, detailed how they
fled Srebrenica through the mountains when it fell a week ago.
"But what could we do?" asked one man. "We only have ancient guns. They
arrived with their tanks and mortars."
Another man, covered in dirt, added angrily: "There are no heavy
weapons in Srebrenica because we gave them all to the UN when our
enclave was declared a protected zone two years ago."
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said in Geneva that
between 10,000 and 12,000 people were unaccounted for from Srebrenica.
Many are believed to be men and girls detained by the Bosnian Serbs.
The Serbs, meanwhile, were Tuesday closing in on Zepa, another
UN-declared safe area. The other four are Bihac, Gorazde, Tuzla and
Sarajevo.
