He said Washington had taken no measures to prevent Brothers planes
from violating Cuban territory.
US aircraft are banned from overflying Cuban territory and the Cuban
government has protested diplomatically against repeated violations,
but the Brothers group has resisted official pressure to comply with
the law.
The anti-Cuba sanctions announced by Clinton include the use of Cuban
assets frozen in the United States to compensate the victims' families,
a ban on all charter flights between the two countries and additional
travel restrictions for Cuban officials in the United States.
Clinton also vowed to reach rapid agreement with Congress on
legislation to expand the 33-year economic embargo on Cuba, but his
opposition to a key provision could force a showdown with the
Republican sponsors of the bill.
Clinton said he would continue to oppose a provision in the bill that
would allow law suits by Cuban Americans against foreign interests
holding property in Cuba that was seized after the 1959 revolution.
The clause is considered the real teeth of the bill, and Clinton's
opposition has already sparked protests from Cuban exiles and
Republican candidates claiming he is soft on Castro.
Senate Majority leader and Republican presidential hopeful Bob Dole
said if Clinton "is serious about ending Fidel Castro's reign of terror
he will endorse our legislation without qualification."
Support of Clinton's proposals was split along party lines with
Republicans calling for "real firmness and pressure" to deal with
Castro, and Democrats hailing the move as a step in the right
direction.
Six Central American leaders meeting Monday with US Secretary of State
Warren Christopher in San Salvador, backed UN condemnation of Cuba's
actions, but were more reserved on the new US sanctions against Havana.
Meanwhile, Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina, who was to hold
informal meetings with the UN Security Council later Tuesday or
Wednesday, said during an overnight stop in Mexico City that his
government had irrefutable proof that the downed planes had crossed
into Cuban airspace.
Clinton reiterated Washington's claim that the planes were over
international waters, unarmed and thus posed no threat to Cuba: "It
(the shooting down) is wrong, and the United States will not tolerate
it," he said.
The president's announcement Monday added a new chill to US-Cuban
relations, which began warming late last year when Clinton eased travel
to the island by Cuban exiles, academics and journalists, and
facilitated the flow of "family dollars" between Americans and Cubans.
