Congress defies Bush administration on guns in cockpit
Congress on Tuesday defied the US administration's statement that US
airline pilots would not be allowed to carry guns in the cockpit, pressing
forward with legislation that would permit them to do just that.
"Congress makes the law," said Representative John Mica of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure committee.
"If we don't agree with the rules, we'll change the rules," he
declared, adding defiantly that "the rule to allow pilots to arm
themselves should (already) have been in place."
Earlier Tuesday, Undersecretary for Transportation Security John Magaw
said he would not authorize pilots to carry guns as requested by
airline pilots following the suicide hijackings of September 11.
"After a lot of consultations and months of work, ... I will not
authorize firearms in the cockpit," Magaw told a Senate panel flatly.
"I wish you would reconsider that," responded Senator Conrad Burns, one
of a number of legislators backing US airline pilots' demands that they
be allowed to carry guns aboard passenger planes to help prevent a
repeat of the attacks that killed some 3,000 people last year.
"Pilots need to concentrate on flying the plane," Magaw said, adding
that the administration would likely make a formal statement on the
issue later in the week.
But Representative Don Young, chairman of the House committee,
dismissed that argument.
"The events of September 11 have dramatically changed how we must
defend our planes and our passengers," he said.
"I strongly believe that under these new circumstances, we must allow
trained and qualified pilots to serve as the last line of defense
against such a potential disaster."
Young and Mica are introducing legislation to create a program under
which pilots can volunteer to carry a gun to defend the cockpit.
The legislation is due to be voted on at the subcommittee level on
Thursday, and out of the full committee by mid-June, Mica told
reporters.
"Any aid and assistance we can give is absolutely necessary," he said.
Congress passed legislation last year permitting pilots to carry
handguns at the discretion of the airlines and President George W.
Bush's administration. But the plan to arm pilots was never enacted.
To date, the Bush administration has preferred to boost airline
security by improving safety checks and having armed air marshals on
board commercial flights.
Arguing that the safety of their passengers was at stake, pilots had
said that only lethal force could counter a deadly threat.
Some of the 114,000 pilots in the United States said in early May that
a petition to that effect addressed to Bush had gathered close to
45,000 signatures.
"The objective is to protect the plane," Young insisted. "The job of
the pilot is to make sure there is no invasion of the cockpit, and he
needs a firearm to do that."
In the Senate, lawmakers supporting the pilots' demands said in early
May that they were introducing legislation calling for a training
program to arm airline pilots that would start within six months.
Department of Transportation officials' concerns regarding airline
liability in the event that guns are used could be addressed by
removing such liability, they added at the time.
"This is not going to be a Wild West show," Young said, adding that
pilots would use guns only "to deter someone from entering the
cockpit."
