Overnight clashes between nationalists and police 
Nationalist demonstrators clashed with police overnight in several
towns across Northern Ireland after similar confrontations left 30
injured earlier in the day in Belfast and Londonderry, police said
Sunday.
In the predominantly Catholic and nationalist town of Armagh, in the
south of the province, dozens of protestors threw stones, bricks and
bottles at police and firemen. One fireman was injured and several
police vehicles and vans damaged.
In Londonderry around 100 youths from the Catholic Bogside district
hurled petrol bombs at police, also causing damage to shops, while in
Belfast a bus was hijacked and set on fire by demonstrators.
The overnight incidents came after a day of clashes between police and
nationalists protesting at the annual Protestant Apprentice Boys
marches passing through their neighbourhoods.
The worst violence was in Belfast where 22 people were injured, 12 of
them police officers. In Londonderry the Protestant marches passed off
without any major incident, but there were skirmishes in the evening
between youths from Bogside and police said a few people had been hurt.
Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army, was
planning a protest demonstration in Belfast Sunday, during which the
party's leader Gerry Adams will address supporters. Adams has blamed
London for the flare-up.
"It is the British government policy which determined the violent
outcome of this morning's events," he said in a statement, accusing
London of "strangling the peace process."
August 12 is the traditional day for Protestant marches organised by
the "Apprentice Boys", an organisation founded in 1714 to celebrate the
13 youths who closed the gates of Londonderry in the face of James II's
besieging army in 1689.
In 1969, a similar march along the old city walls overlooking the
Bogside, led to violent clashes, prompting the British government to
send in the troops to Ulster for the first time.
The violence lasted several days and spread to other parts of the
province, leaving eight people dead, seven of them in Belfast.
