Political worries likely to hit trading in Indian stocks next week 
Simmering political differences within India's ruling Hindu
nationalists are likely to weaken next week's trading in domestic stock
markets, dealers said here on Friday.
The 30-share Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) sensitive index closed at
3,516.11 points on Friday, down 101.57 points from the previous week's
close.
BSE dealers said a shortened three-day business week will also keep
share prices in a narrow band as Monday and Friday are national
holidays.
The BSE will remain closed on both the days.
"It will be a dull week as no major buying is expected given the fluid
political situation. Also, considering that it is fiscal year ending,
fresh buying will be restrained," said R.K Chary Stock Broking director
Venkat Iyer.
He said a clear trend was likely to emerge only after the end of the
present political worries and the possible passage of a tough
anti-terrorism bill into law by a rare joint session of the Indian
parliament on Tuesday.
Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee's BJP party-led coalition
government was defeated in parliament's upper house Thursday during an
opposition vote on the anti-terror bill.
Dealers said investors were cautious as they feared political upheavals
during the three-day weekend starting Saturday.
"Perceptions are that Vajpayee may even threaten to quit and force
unwanted elections on the country. You never know what happens at
today's meeting of BJP party and its allies," said a dealer with a
domestic brokerage.
Hardline Hindu groups allied to the BJP plan to carry out a
communally-explosive march to the adjoining state of Gujarat where the
decade's worst sectarian violence last month left around 700 people
dead, mostly Hindus.
The dealer, however, said software stocks could see some buoyancy next
week ahead of the close of the financial year on March 31.
"Leading software companies will start announcing their results from
second week of April," he said.
"Investors are expected to turn into buyers next week in these stocks
to benefit later ahead of the results or after the results," he added.
