WHO Blames Ebola Virus for Deaths in Zaire
The hospital where the Ebola epidemic began was eerily deserted when
health experts arrived Thursday to investigate the outbreak of the
virus already blamed for dozens of deaths in central Zaire.
The patients and staff apparently fled the disease-infected, 350-bed
hospital in Kikwit, 600 kilometers (370 miles) east of the capital, and
aid officials fear they may have spread the virus. Some, however, may
be among the dead.
Health officials also were investigating a possible second outbreak of
the virus in another hospital about 100 kilometers (60 miles) from
Kikwit.
It is the first Ebola epidemic in 16 years. The virus causes
hemorrhaging, fevers and death within days for up to 80 percent of
those infected.
Kikwit, a city of 600,000 people, was put under quarantine Tuesday. A
team of experts who arrived there Thursday found its main hospital
deserted except for 20 patients, the World Health Organization said in
Geneva.
WHO said 27 people have died and 22 others were hospitalized, many of
them in terminal stages of illness. Health-care workers accounted for
most of those 49 cases, the agency said in a phone report from Zaire.
WHO officials said that toll only included those who were definitely
diagnosed as having Ebola. They said it was likely to rise as
investigations continued.
``In view of the dispersal of patients and staff from the hospital, WHO
believes that more cases of Ebola disease will occur in the vicinity,''
the agency said. It said 20 more cases were suspected in the hospital
in Mosango, about 100 kilometers (60 miles) outside of Kikwit.
WHO said cases also have been identified at another Kikwit hospital and
at a hospital in Yass Bongo, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) from
Kikwit.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta
identified the virus as Ebola after testing blood samples from victims
in Zaire, WHO spokesman Philippe Stroot said.
The number of deaths has been difficult to tally because of conflicting
reports and the uncertainty that Ebola was the cause of all deaths.
The aid group Doctors Without Borders reported Thursday from Brussels,
Belgium, that 170 people had died since hemorrhagic fever was reported
in Kikwit a month ago, but later backed down from this figure. Its team
was not expected in Kikwit until later Thursday.
The group's spokeswoman in Kinshasa said 20 deaths from Ebola were
confirmed as of Tuesday and 61 others died from bloody diarrhea, which
tests may show to have been caused by Ebola or the bacteria shigella.
The spokeswoman, Veerle Eygenraam, said 20 others, mainly hospital
staff, were quarantined with suspected Ebola.
Oleko Taoibashe, an economics professor at the University of Kinshasa,
warned Thursday that even if the disease doesn't spread, the quarantine
could cause hardships elsewhere in Zaire.
``Kikwit is the most important agricultural area near Kinshasa,'' he
said. ``If trucks cannot leave there, there will be food shortages.''
There is no vaccine or treatment for Ebola, which Ralph Henderson, the
assistant director for WHO, called ``one of the deadliest viruses we
know.''
However, he said, ``This is not a public health emergency in the sense
of a wild spread either in Zaire or internationally. It is a very
serious outbreak in the area it concerns.''
Henderson and other WHO officials emphasized that in previous
outbreaks, the virus has run its course quickly. Like the AIDS virus,
Ebola is spread through body fluids and secretions, not casual contact.
But those infected with Ebola become sick almost immediately and are
unlikely to pass it on before dying.
The doctor who first discovered Ebola two decades ago said its fatality
rate is as high as 80 percent.
``It is definitely a hemorrhagic fever, where victims bleed to death
with blood coming out of the ears and eyes. It's a horrible disease,''
Dr. Peter Piot told The Associated Press.
WHO officials said two of three previous confirmed outbreaks originated
in hospitals with very poor hygiene. A third was caused by African
funeral rituals that involve cutting open the corpse.
Piot said the Zairian hospital where he discovered Ebola in 1976 had
120 beds and only three syringes. That same year, 274 of 300 people
died in an Ebola outbreak in one Zairian village.
``Once you institute precautions, make sure you're not using
contaminated needles, you can contain the virus,'' CDC infectious
disease specialist Dr. Ruth Berkelman said in an interview on ABC
television.
But the head of WHO's Africa office, Ephraim Samba, said the danger of
the virus spreading could not be ruled out because of air travel in and
out of Kikwit.
Two women were placed under observation in Italy after attending the
funeral of their sister, a nun who apparently contracted the virus
while working in a Zairian hospital.
So far the women have shown no signs of the virus, said Arturo Bellini,
a spokesman for the Order of Poverelle in Bergamo, Italy. They are in
isolation at Bergamo's Riuniti Hospital and should remain there for two
more weeks.
Another member of the nun's Poverelle order also died and two remained
in serious but stable condition at a Kikwit hospital, according to the
order.
