Hingis Ousted in Wimbledon 
World women's number one Martina Hingis of Switzerland produced the
day's biggest story when she was crashed by 16-year-old qualifier
Jelena Dokic 6-2, 6-0 in the first round of the women's singles on
Tuesday.
It was the first time since 1994 that the top seed in the women 's
Wimbledon draw went out in the first round -- back then it was Steffi
Graf who was sent packing by American Lori McNeil.
The only other top seed to lose in the first round of a Grand Slam
since the Open Era began in 1968 was Virginia Ruzici of Romania who was
upset by Margaret Sawyer at the 1979 Australian Open.
Hingis started the season in fine fashion, winning the Australian Open
for the third consecutive year, which included a third round victory
over Dokic in their only other encounter.
However, on the lawn, the 16-year-old Dokic, who made her debut at
Wimbledon via the qualifying tournament, did the unthinkable in an
astonishing Court One performance.
The Australian, world junior champion last year, broke Hingis twice in
the first set and then looked in a class of her own for the rest of the
match.
She made the Swiss star look like a novice, running her around the
court and smashing winners past her at will, before completing the
sensational shock victory in just 54 minutes.
"It's amazing, just amazing," Dokic said as 1987 men's champion Pat
Cash embraced her afterwards.
"I guess I still can't believe I beat her," said the No. 129 ranked
Dokic, smiling. "It was a big win for me, coming from qualifying. I
thought I played quite well."
The top seed has only been beaten in the opening round of a Wimbledon
singles three times in the 122-year history of the world 's most
prestigious tournament, and never to a qualifier.
Hingis, who won here in 1997, said she planned to take a break from
tennis and appeared to have split from her coach -- her mother Melanie.
"Maybe I just need a break from everything right now. A break would
really suit me," she said.
"This tournament, we decided to have a little bit of distance," vHingis
admitted. "We'll probably work a bit more on our private lives and see
how its is going to go in the future."
In another women's singles match, Jennifer Capriati of the United
States beat Germany's Anke Huber 5-7, 6-3, 9-7 when the suspended match
resumed today.
Capriati, who in 1991 became the youngest women's Wimbledon
semifinalist aged 15 years 95 days, was joined in the second round by
defending champion Jana Novotna of Czech Republic who beat Wang
Shi-ting of Chinese Taipei 6-2, 6-1.
Third seed Lindsay Davenport of the United States crushed Alexandra
Fusai of France 6-0, 6-3 while Spanish seventh-seed Arantxa Sanchez
Vicario recovered from a slow start to beat Hungary's Annamaria
Foldenyi 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.
The men stayed out of the limelight on the traditional Ladies' Day at
Wimbledon, avoiding shock upsets - but only just.
Three-time champion Boris Becker battled from two sets down and saved
three match points in the fourth set against Briton Miles MacLagan to
keep his final Wimbledon dream alive.
The 31-year-old unseeded German finally subdued the unheralded Scot
5-7, 6-7, 6-4, 7-5, 6-2 for a victory as great as any he achieved in
his glory years a decade ago.
He was joined in the second round by third seed Yevgeny Kafelnikov who
narrowly avoided defeat when his darkness-delayed first round match
with Magnus Larsson resumed at two sets apiece and 5-5 in the fifth.
The Russian former world number one eventually squeezed through 6-7,
7-5, 7-6, 4-6, 7-5.
Andre Agassi hardly put a foot wrong on center court as the form that
took him to the French Open title this month continued on grass and he
thrashed Romanian Andrei Pavel 6-1, 6-2, 6-3.
Second seed Pat Rafter dealt with Cristiano Caratti of Italy 6- 3, 6-2,
6-2, while Brazilian 11th-seed Gustavo Kuerten recorded his first
victory on grass beating Chris Wilkinson 6-4, 6-4, 6-4.
