S. Korean military, security forces put on top alert on Kim Il-Sung's death
South Korea on Saturday put its entire military and security forces on
top alert following the announcement of the death of North Korean
President Kim Il-Sung.
Immediately after hearing the shock news of the North Korean leader's
death, South Korean President Kim Young-Sam convened an urgent security
council meeting and ordered all troops to prepare for an emergency.
Kim Young-Sam issued a statement appealing for calm, saying his
government has been fully prepared to protect the nation.
"The government is ready to protect the nation under all
circumstances," the statement said, as the North Korean leader's death
spurred widespread unease among South Koreans.
Kim Il-Sung was reported to have died at 2:00 a.m. on Friday (1700 GMT
Thursday), according to a special bulletin broadcast by Pyongyang
Radio. He was 82.
Lee Yang-Ho, the South's joint chief of staff, appeared on state-run
television, instructing all soldiers on leave to immediately return to
their barracks.
"All liberty and vacations for officers and men and women in uniform
shall be suspended," the commander said.
There was no immediate announcement on the alert status of the 37,000
US troops based in tripwire positions south of the demilitarized zone,
and telephone calls remained unanswered.
All surveillance systems here were set to monitor North Korea's
military movements along the heavily fortified demilitarized zone,
which is within artillery range of Seoul, military authorities said.
"North Korean speakers on their side along the border have stopped
their usual slander this afternoon and began airing the death of Kim
Il-Sung," a defense ministry official said.
Military monitors also spotted mourning flags displayed at half-mast in
some frontline units, he said.
Foreign ministry officials contacted South Korea's allies to consult on
changes in inter-Korean relations and the security situation following
Kim Il-Sung's death.
Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo phoned US Secretary of State Warren
Christopher in Washington, and Assistant Secretary of State Robert
Gallucci, who is in Geneva for high-level negotiations with North
Korea.
Han also is arranging similar phone calls to top officials in China,
Japan and Russia, his office said.
In the streets of Seoul, pedestrians and taxi drivers were glued to
their radios, and state officials who had been preparing for a
first-ever summit between the two Korean presidents from July 25-27
were stunned.
Newspapers came out with snap special editions, and speculation in the
knots of people who gathered at restaurants and coffee houses centered
on the future of North Korea's leadership.
Government officials also huddled for consultations to analyze whether
Kim Il-Sung died of natural causes or was assassinated to prevent the
historic North-South summit from taking place.
They also remained concerned that the death of Kim Il-Sung might have
an unexpected effect on inter-Korean relations.
"The government is fully prepared for any emergency and hopes that the
people do not lose their peace of mind. There is no change in the
government's position on securing peace," the South Korean president
said before chairing the security council meeting.
The meeting was being called to discuss follow-up steps, including the
nation's security posture, and Kim Young-Sam said he hoped the people
would trust his government and feel at ease.
