Clinton Abandons $40 billion loan guarantee
President Clinton, warning Tuesday that America ``cannot risk further
delay,'' abruptly abandoned efforts to win congressional approval of a
$40 billion loan guarantee for Mexico and resorted to unilateral action
to help stem that country's deepening economic crisis.
Clinton announced a new international package of emergency assistance
for Mexico totaling $47.5 billion. It includes $20 billion from the
U.S. Exchange Stabilization Fund, $17.5 billion from the International
Monetary Fund and $10 billion in short-term lending from the Bank of
International Settlements, another lending organization.
The new package poses far less risk to American taxpayers than the
loan-guarantee program would have in case of a Mexican default,
officials said.
``We must act now,'' Clinton told the National Governor's Association
in a hastily revised address barely 90 minutes after an emergency White
House meeting with congressional leaders and members of his Cabinet.
``We cannot risk further delay.''
The widening economic crisis in America's huge trading partner
threatens ``thousands'' of American jobs and ``millions of dollars'' in
U.S. exports and promises to swell the ranks of illegal immigrants
streaming across America's southern border, Clinton said.
``The risks of inaction are greater than the risks of decisive
action,'' the president said. ``This is the right thing to do.''
Clinton took the action after a sobering meeting with Republican and
Democratic leaders from both houses of Congress who bluntly warned him
that lawmakers would reject the quick rescue plan that had been the
goal of bipartisan negotiations for more than two weeks.
White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry, emerging from the hour-long
meeting, said the Clinton administration and the independent Federal
Reserve would act in concert to try to halt the free-fall of plummeting
peso, which has lost 45 percent of its value in six weeks.
McCurry said Clinton would take unilateral executive action ``to help
stabilize the Mexican currency'' and to ``protect U.S. economic
interests.''
The president's spokesman said Tuesday's action won initial support
from Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, Senate Minority Leader Thomas
Daschle, House Speaker Newt Gingrich and House Minority Leader Richard
Gephardt during the White House meeting. The session also included
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Treasury Secretary Robert
Rubin.
Clinton concluded from his meeting with lawmakers that ``the likelihood
of a congressionally-approved package has diminished significantly,''
McCurry explained. ``Given the urgency of the matter he intends to act
under his executive authority under the law.''
McCurry said that the president remained convinced that ``the best of
all circumstances would have been to have a package that had been
approved by Congress.'' But the urgency of the crisis required
immediate executive action, McCurry said.
Neither the president nor his Cabinet secretaries criticized leaders of
the GOP-controlled Congress for failing to push the measure with their
colleagues, McCurry emphasized. Clinton ``understands that it is
difficult for some members of Congress to understand the (loan
guarantee) package,'' McCurry said. ``But on the other hand, the
urgency to act and to protect the interests of Americans is clearly
foremost in the president's mind.''
McCurry said Clinton's executive action means that the U.S. part of the
international aid package would be about half the $40 billion target
initially set for the original U.S. loan-guarantee package for Mexico.
Action by other nations and international financial institutions such
as the International Monetary Fund ``has lessened some of the exposure
that would be taken by the United States,'' he said.
``It's been clear from the outset of the crisis that we need to act
swiftly to help put Mexico in a better position to weather this
crisis,'' McCurry said.
Administration officials had argued that the loan-guarantee package
would not have been a large risk to American taxpayers. The Mexican
government would have paid a fee for the guarantees and the United
States would have had first call on Mexico's oil export revenues in
case of default.
But critics said the collateral would not have been enough if the
Mexican economy continued to slide. Opponents also portrayed the
package as a bailout for millionaire Wall Street investors and economic
planners in Mexico City.
U.S. Ambassador to Mexico James Jones said Tuesday that American
taxpayers face negligible financial exposure from the $20 billion being
drawn from the U.S. Exchange Stabilization Fund.
The Clinton administration has not decided whether to pledge the $20
billion as a loan guarantee or a line of credit, Jones said.
But Mexico's revenue from international oil sales will be used ``as an
assured means of repayment'' in the event of default by the Mexican
government, said Jones, a former Democratic congressman from Oklahoma.
The $17.5 billion line of credit from the International Monetary Fund
is in addition to $7.8 billion that the world lending agency approved
last week. The $10 billion from the Bank of International Settlements
is for short-term loans.
A Washington Post-ABC News poll, released Tuesday, showed that 71
percent of 1,026 adults surveyed said they opposed loan guarantees and
25 percent favored them.
Surveys in Mexico City have shown that a large majority of Mexicans
opposed accepting aid from the United States, contending that it would
compromise their nation's sovereignty.
