Reich Says Artificial Barriers Are Holding Back Women 
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said Monday that subtle but pervasive
patterns of discrimination dominate the public, private and nonprofit
sectors of society because of a ``myopia'' on the part of many white
male managers who ``unthinkingly discriminate'' without having any idea
they are doing so.
Speaking in New York City at the fifth and final hearing of a
congressional commission studying discrimination at the executive
level, Reich said artificial barriers to advancement are holding back
many women and minorities from attaining positions commensurate with
their skills, training and numbers, and preventing the economy from
growing to its full potential.
``Walk through the boardrooms or executive suites of many companies,
and it's still difficult to find a single woman or minority man,'' he
said in the fifth and final hearing of the Glass Ceiling Commission.
``Even though women are half the work force, they make up only between
3 and 6 percent of corporate executives and officers. Minorities
account for only 1 percent.''
Statistics presented Monday painted a monochromatic picture of life in
the executive suites three decades after the passage of the Civil
Rights Act and long after calls by leaders of the women's movement for
a revolution in America's boardrooms.
They also showed the federal government's top echelons out of kilter
with its vast work force. Minorities account for 28 percent of federal
jobs but fill only 8 percent of the top posts, said Reich. Women make
up 44 percent of the work force, but 87 percent of the top posts are
held by men.
``In Washington sometimes,'' Reich told a packed hall at the City Bar
Association's headquarters, ``the only architectural feature as
prominent as the Capitol Dome is the glass ceiling.''
The Glass Ceiling Commission was created by Congress in 1991 to study
impediments to the advancement of minorities and women to the top rungs
of power. It is expected to file a report to President Clinton early
next year. Monday's hearing explored inequalities in places that
included corporate boardrooms, exclusive law firms and the nation's
best colleges and universities.
Some of the solutions, several speakers said, are already in place in
federal legislation and policies. But a lack of resources and minimal
enforcement efforts have led to an environment in which corporate heads
and other leaders have been able to ignore existing regulations.
``Enforcement of the existing laws lags,'' said Christine Carty, a
lawyer and chairwoman of the Obstacles to Advancement Subcommittee of
the New York Women's Agenda, a nonprofit coalition of women's groups.
Describing a ``corrosive cynicism'' among employers, she criticized the
lack of financing for enforcement agencies and called for
investigations into unfair practices to send a message to employers
around the country.
Other speakers called on the government to publish the results of
investigations and provide more general information to both employers
and workers through a broad program of public disclosure.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
``Good-faith efforts are not enough''` said Sheila W. Wellington, the
president of Catalyst, a nonprofit research group that studies women in
business. She said that at least half of the top 1,000 corporations in
the country have not one woman on their boards. Overall, women hold 6.2
percent of those seats.
Several witnesses testified that problems for minority women, and Latin
American women in particular, far outstrip those of all other
categories. Across the board, said Jenny Rivera of the Puerto Rican
Legal Defense Fund, Hispanic women tend to hold less stable jobs at
lower positions for lower wages than their peers.
Conditions for many blacks are similarly bleak, said Barbara Armwine of
the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. ``We talk about the
concrete ceiling or the concrete wall,'' she said. ``But it is really
old-fashioned racial discrimination.''
That theme was heatedly replayed Monday afternoon by Edward Jones of
the Harvard Business School's Black Alumni Association. He said social
barriers for blacks in the business world still keep them from the
inner core of power. Blacks, he said, seldom win a full place in the
top ranks of business.
