Looking beyond Apollo soon after the first lunar landing, a White House
panel endorsed much of NASA's wish list when it proposed an ambitious
program of bases on the Moon, space stations circling it and even
larger Earth-orbiting laboratories capable of supporting 50 to 100
people. The ringing encore would be a human expedition to Mars in the
1980s, at the earliest, or no later than the end of this century.
``That was NASA at its worst,'' said John E. Pike, a space policy
analyst for the Federation of American Scientists in Washington. ``It
was all `how' and no `why.' ''
But to most people, Apollo 11 had been an ending, not a beginning; the
Moon race was over, and there would be no more blank checks for space.
All the proposals were quietly shelved, except for one to develop a
reusable spacecraft, which President Richard M. Nixon approved in early
1972. But the space shuttles eventually developed were not fully
reusable and have never lived up to extravagant forecasts that they
would be flying 40 or 50 missions a year by the 1990s, instead of the
current rate of seven or eight.
``People always talk about the `Kennedy effect,''' said Dr. Walter A.
McDougall, a University of Pennsylvania historian and author of the
acclaimed political history of the space age, ``The Heavens and the
Earth'' (Basic Books, 1986).
``But once the Moon race was won, people lost interest, and even a
Kennedy probably could not have maintained a brighter post-Apollo
program. Perhaps it's not unreasonable that the human race, once it had
first mastered the art of rocket flight, would engage in a great burst
of exploration, followed by a long pause to regroup and rethink the
economics of space and then proceed in a more pragmatic fashion.''
In any event, lower budgets, a lack of clearly defined goals and
dwindling political support left the space agency adrift. Although
President Ronald Reagan finally gave his approval in 1984, the space
station program has taken two years more than it took to put the first
Apollo on the Moon, and the station is still not off the ground.
On the 20th anniversary of Apollo 11, President George Bush pledged
that Mars would be the country's new space goal, with humans landing
there by the year 2019, the golden anniversary of the first lunar
landing. Nothing more was heard of this because Congress refused to
finance it.
It is little wonder that sadness and a sense of betrayal creep into the
recollections of Apollo participants. Dr. Robert C. Seamans Jr., NASA's
deputy administrator during some of the Apollo years, recalled
conversations he had with James E. Webb, the politically skilled leader
of NASA in the 1960's, not long before Webb's death in 1992.
``We thought we were laying a foundation for future space
exploration,'' Seamans said. ``We thought after Apollo we wouldn't need
to go back to the drawing board for whole new sets of vehicles. But
that's what happened when they disbanded the whole Saturn-Apollo
operation and hardware and chose to start all over again with the
shuttle.''
Pike of the Federation of American Scientists said, ``The problem over
the last 25 years was that we were not able to develop a compelling
geopolitical rationale for any space program since Apollo that lasted
long enough to get anything done.''
A major civilian space program has now been identified with an
important foreign policy objective, Pike noted, and the paradox is that
this time it involves cooperation with the Russians, not confrontation.
President Clinton won substantial support for the space station this
year by bringing in the Russians, thus trying through cooperation in
space to help insure the success of Russian democracy.
McDougall counseled patience. After all, he noted, it was 50 years
after Magellan made the first crossing of the Pacific before the
Spanish finally managed to go back in 1571 and establish a permanent
base on the other side, at Manila.
If the costs of rocket technology are substantially reduced, McDougall
said, there could be a new rush to go to space, although the leader
might not be the United States, but Japan.
Daniel S. Goldin, the current NASA Administrator, acknowledged that he
had discouraged official Apollo retrospectives. ``We can spend so much
time reviewing history that we're not writing any more history,'' he
said.
Another anniversary echo from the time of the lunar landing brings back
the oft-repeated question, ``If we can send men to the Moon, why can't
we ...'' cure cancer, rebuild the cities, or whatever. At first, the
question was asked in earnest, an expression of impatience and hope.
Now, if it is asked at all, the tone is one of despair and
self-reproach. Apollo may have been a success, Dr. Logsdon of George
Washington University said, but not as a model for attacking other
concerns, not unless the goal can be as clearly defined, as amenable to
a straightforward technological solution and as strongly supported.
In years to come, people may look back on Apollo as a historical
anomaly -- a small step -- or as the inspired beginning of space travel
and human life on other worlds -- truly a giant leap for mankind. Those
who experienced the thrill of that beginning will never know the
ultimate outcome.
