Mixed results of baboon cell graft to AIDS patient puzzle doctors
Doctors are puzzled over why a graft of baboon cells to a human, which
was hoped to provide a weapon to fight AIDS, has shown no signs of
taking root, but the patient's health has improved.
Despite the mystery, they said they intend to seek permission for more
tests.
Jeff Getty, 38, received the bone marrow of a baboon during a 30-minute
transplant December 14. Baboons have a natural resistance to the virus
that causes AIDS, a resistance doctors have not yet explained.
The San Francisco resident, who contracted the virus that causes
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 15 years ago, fought for two years
to gain the right to participate in the experiment to try to boost his
immune system.
Doctors report the number of immune system cells in Getty's body has
climbed back to where it was in 1992, his asthma has diminished and he
reports feeling better than before the graft.
He has been able to lead a quasi-normal life, engaging in sports and
sailing in San Francisco Bay.
Doctors speculate Getty's improvement may be from chemotherapy and
radiation treatments he underwent to prepare him for the transplant.
"Obviously, something beneficial has happened to him. Now we have to
figure out what," said Yolanda Colson, who works with Suzanne Ildstad
of the University of Pittsburgh, who set up the experiment with
University of California, San Francisco, colleagues.
"Jeff Getty is doing clinically extremely well," and is not suffering
any infection but "we don't expect we'll have a large number of
circulating baboon cells," Doctor Christina Kaufman, also from the
University of Pittsburgh, said Thursday.
The University of Pittsburgh was where the first two patients to
receive baboon livers underwent their operations. The two subsequently
died and the university has maintained a self-imposed moratorium of
animal-human transplants since 1993.
Ildstad said she was going to seek new authorization to repeat the
experiment in four to six months, either with Getty or another patient.
Doctors said that even if the tests showed the baboon cells did not
survive the graft, the fact that the Getty's condition has improved
merits further research.
The US Food and Drug Administration gave specific approval for the test
in August, 1995 after two years of lobbying from doctors. The FDA did
not approve the grafts in general, however, and it was still too soon
to determine what the response would be to new requests.
