Dollar Down Slightly, Stocks Higher in Early Trading
The U.S. dollar was slightly lower but steady against the Japanese yen
early Monday in Tokyo in a muted reaction to the breakdown of
U.S.-Japan auto talks over the weekend.
Traders said the mood on the market was quiet and tense in anticipation
of a U.S. announcement early this week of tough trade sanctions against
Japan, a step that would aggravate tensions between the two giant
economies and possibly shatter the dollar's recent stability.
Japan has said it would file a complaint with the World Trade
Organization, the recenlty formed trade arbiter, if Washington
publishes a sanctions list. President Clinton had promised strong
measures if the talks broke down.
Economists and traders fear that an escalation of trade frictions could
renew the dollar's plunge to record lows against the dollar, but for
now traders are waiting to see what happens next.
``The market is waiting for the details of the sanctions,'' said
Chemical Bank trader Junichi Kodama. ``There is sentiment that the
dollar has already bottomed out, and some people are becoming bullish
on the dollar ... even though news is not good.''
``Trading is likely to stay in a limited range until sanctions are
announced. After that, the dollar may be back on a downtrend,'' Kodama
said.
The dollar opened the week's trading at 83.58 yen on the Tokyo foreign
exchange market, down 0.18 yen from 83.76 yen at 5 p.m. (0800 GMT) last
Tuesday, before markets closed for a five-day holiday.
The Tokyo open was also down from 83.95 yen in late New York trading
Friday.
After hitting a global record low of 79.75 yen on April 19 in Tokyo,
the dollar has steadied itself in the low 80 yen range.
Many consider the dollar's persistent decline against the yen in recent
years to be the result of unprecedented growth in the U.S. trade
deficit with Japan, which reached a record dlrs 66 billion last year.
Autos and auto parts account for about 60 percent of the deficit.
Market players generally believe that Washington wants a strong yen as
a way to open Japanese markets to foreign products. Washington has
strengthened that association by emphasizing the link between the
course of the auto trade talks and the currency issue.
Japanese officials complain about what they view as Washington's
lukewarm stance in arresting the dollar's steady decline. So far this
year, the dollar's value has fallen about 16 percent against the yen.
In theory, a higher yen would trim Japan's trade surplus by forcing
Japanese exporters to raise prices, rendering them less competitive
abroad. But Japan's trade surplus has ballooned over the past few years
despite the persistent appreciation of the yen.
On the stock market, share prices rose slightly in thin trading
following an arbitrage-led rally last week. Traders said the fact that
the dollar did not plunge in early dealings was a positive factor for
the market.
The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average rose 25.14 points, or 0.15 percent,
to 17,113.80 after the first half-hour of trading. The Nikkei rose
277.20 points, or 1.65 percent, on Tuesday before a five-day market
holiday.
The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed on the first section
was up 2.00 points, or 0.15 percent, to 1,355.45. The TOPIX was up
21.47 points, or 1.61 percent, the previous trading day.
In early trading, the price of the benchmark No. 174 10-year Japanese
government bonds was 108.96 yen, up 0.46 yen from its close of 108.50
yen on Tuesday. The yield fell to 3.400 from 3.400. (bks)
