Exxon Paleontologists Call For Increased U.S. Fossil Production
In what Exxon officials described as "an urgent wake-up call to the
nation," scientists from the oil giant's paleontological-research arm
released a report Monday calling for an "immediate and substantial"
increase in U.S. fossil production.
Exxon paleontologist Jameson Lamm (right) surveys a company-owned site
in West Texas containing 50-million-year-old fossil deposits.
"America's fossil deposits are running alarmingly low," said Dr.
Jameson Lamm, head of Exxon's paleontological research and development
team. "At the current rate at which we are producing new fossils in
this country, we will not have enough to meet the next decade's fossil
needs for another 12 to 15 hundred million years."
Fossilization, the report said, represents America's best method for
converting organic plant and animal remnants into exploitable
chemical-energy sources via the pressure of miles of layers of rock
over millions of years. Describing the fossilization process as
"virtually free, except for digging, pumping, processing, storage,
by-product-disposal and shipping costs," the report stressed the
importance of maintaining a high overall fossil yield to the long-term
reliability and availability of chemical energy sources.
"Without fossils, all the pressure of all the crust of all the Earth
doesn't amount to a thing," Lamm said. "All it does is compress layers
of runoff sediment into a useless underground strata of sedimentary and
metamorphic rock. It doesn't provide electrical power, heat,
plasticizers, synthetic rubber or space-age synthetic petrochemical
fibers. For that we need fossils and, to be frank, plenty of them."
According to the Exxon study, Earth is currently producing newly
fossilized material at a rate of 550 pounds per
year--919,450,000,020,000 percent slower than the rate needed to meet
the nation's minimum fossil-related needs for the next decade. "The
dire need for faster fossil production in the United States cannot be
overstated," the 400-page report concluded.
Exxon paleontologist Dr. Richard Oliva said that the roots of the
current fossil shortage lie in years of fossil waste.
"Gross fossil misuse and mismanagement, such as the reckless,
irresponsible practice of digging up dinosaur bones and other remains
of prehistoric lifeforms for useless, trivial and unproductive display
in museums, must not be tolerated," Oliva said. "Left undisturbed, as
intended by nature, such residue of long-extinct lifeforms may have
eventually matured into valuable deposits of coal and oil. Sadly,
though, for the many fossils currently on display in museums or in use
in scientific studies, this will never happen."
"We may enjoy the selfish pleasures of viewing exhibits of dinosaur
skeletons and studying prehistoric biology," Oliva said, "but every
time we do, we are robbing our children, and our children's children."
In addition to advocating the elimination of fossil waste, the Exxon
study called for the government to immediately prioritize the creation
of new fossils. The study urged Congress to establish federal economic
incentives that would encourage prairie, forest and wetlands regions to
deteriorate, decay, become buried in the accumulated silt of rivers,
and be crushed into fossil fuel by the accumulated weight of miles of
rock layers above, ideally "within the next seven to 15 years."
"America does not need ecosystems on the surface of the earth, where
they do no good," Oliva said. "We need them buried under miles of rock
strata, where they can be converted into valuable energy resources."
Calling the current fossil crisis "a threat to the future of us all,"
Oliva described the relocation of vast tracts of surface terrain to new
zones deep within the earth's crust "the responsibility of each and
every one of us."
In a joint statement, spokespersons from 91 of the world's top 100
leading oil corporations hailed the Exxon proclamation as "a whisper of
sanity in a self-destructive world."
"Sure, we could try to develop other energy sources, but we have no way
of knowing if they would sustain us in the long run," Global
Tetrahedron CEO Hank Blakeley said. "Yes, solar energy looks good on
paper, but how do we know the sun will continue to shine at its present
rate? Much of the sun remains unexplored, and our information about it
is sketchy at best. Our sun could dim drastically over time, or even
wink out entirely tomorrow, for all we know. Only by ensuring the
continued transformation of our nation's ecosystems into subterranean
strata of raw, non-renewable chemical fuels can we ensure a future for
our children and our planet."
