50 Years Later, Austria Tries To Make Amends To Nazi Victims
Fifty years after the end of World War II, Austria has taken a step
toward confronting its wartime past by creating a 500-million schilling
(dlrs 50 million) fund for Nazi victims.
Parliament passed legislation creating the fund Thursday night, and
lawmakers said it shows Austrians are finally facing up to a chapter of
their history many have been trying to forget.
``This is recognition that Austrians participated in the crimes of
National Socialism,'' said Peter Kostelka, parliamentary whip for the
governing Social Democrats.
Liberal Forum parliamentarian Volker Kier said ``this law is 50 years
overdue.''
Paul Grosz, leader of Austria's Jewish community, said the fund could
help ``solve the problem.'' But he complained that individual Nazi
victims don't yet know how much compensation they can receive, and
those who live abroad haven't been told how to inquire about it.
He said the fund's regulations are ``extremely difficult for the
victims to deal with.''
An estimated 200,000 Austrian Jews fled the Nazis or perished in
concentration camps.
Nazi Germany annexed Austria on March 13, 1938.
After the war, many Austrians chose to see themselves as the first
victims of native son Adolf Hitler. They suppressed memories of the
masses who cheered German troops marching into Austria, of Jews who
died in the Holocaust, of Austrians who zealously took up arms for
Hitler, and of others like Adolf Eichmann who were responsible for Nazi
atrocities.
During the Thursday night parliamentary debate, Green lawmaker Johannes
Voggenhuber recalled that as a boy he heard people praising the wartime
deeds of Austrian soldiers. Austrians who had been bigwigs in the Nazi
Party would be welcomed at taverns.
``But no one spoke of the Nazis' victims,'' said Voggenhuber.
The new fund attempts to make amends.
Compensation would go to people who were persecuted on grounds of race,
religion, nationality, sexual orientation or health.
Recipients must have lived in Austria before Hitler's annexation or
been forced to flee beforehand, or be children of people who were
locked up in Nazi concentration camps.
There have been estimates that 30,000 Austrians who suffered under the
Nazis are still alive, although the Austrian government says it has the
names and addresses of only about 12,000.
Austria already had programs for compensating Nazi victims, but tight
regulations have made it difficult to qualify. The new fund is intended
to correct the deficiencies. (tp/mjp)
