Eurotunnel shares crash into debt nightmare 
The price of Eurotunnel shares crashed by 22.4 percent from their
pre-rescue price to 7.10 francs on Wednesday and one analyst said they
could fall to 1.6 francs under the weight of interest charges.
This would open the way for creditor banks to end up owning up to 75
percent of the company at the end of a seven-year survival period, he
warned.
The rescue depends on approval from 225 banks, some of which must
review their provisions, and from shareholders who are unenthusiastic
about the plan.
The rescue also depends on a big increase of income from fares to use
the tunnel beneath the Channel from the south of England to the north
of France.
The price in Paris fell by 15 percent on Wednesday following a fall of
8.74 percent on Tuesday from the price of 9.15 francs when trading was
suspended nine days ago.
The price in London fell by 13.8 percent or 14.5 pence to 90.5 pence.
On Tuesday it had fallen by 7.49 percent to 105 pence.
At a British bank in London one analyst, who declined to be named,
explained: "The problem for equity holders is that their value isn't
going to come through for 10 or more years."
Forecasting that the price would fall eventually to 20 pence (1.6
francs) per share, he said: "I'm pretty sure that over time, it will
get towards the fundamental valuation level (of 20 pence), but you
could hit resistance levels before then".
But shareholders would certainly not be interested in exercising
warrants at 150 pence per share as arranged under the plan, and banks
would end up owning 60 percent of company, he said.
If Eurotunnel had to issue all 1.85 billion pounds' (2.88 billion
dollars) worth of so-called stabilisation notes in place of interest
which it could not pay, and if these were converted into shares, banks
would eventually own 75 percent of Eurotunnel.
"If you want to look at the very very worst case, which I don't think
will happen, the banks could get up to 75 percent," he said.
The rescue would reduce the annual interest charge by about half to the
equivalent of 400 million pounds (624 million dollars) per year.
