Alan Greenspan: Back On The Tightrope
On the night when everyone who's anyone crowded into the chamber of the
House of Representatives for Bill Clinton's State of the Union address,
where was the second most important man in America?
Not behind him on the podium. Not among the Senate grandees, scowling
an ever-doleful scowl. And not in the balcony above, squeezed
uncomfortably (in every sense) between the first and the second ladies,
as he was two years ago.
No, Alan Greenspan was at home, nursing a cup of yogurt and watching
the whole affair on TV.
Normally, Greenspan's avoidance of the spotlight would seem in
character. The chairman of the Federal Reserve is, after all, a man who
has always seemed happiest when hidden in his marble sanctum.
Yet in the past few weeks, Greenspan has been playing an
uncharacteristically public role: volunteering a plan to slice the
federal deficit by cutting the yearly inflation-adjustments paid to
pensioners; lobbying Congress on behalf of the administration for its
Mexican bailout; and warning the new boys on Capitol Hill not to fiddle
the books in their crazed quest to cut taxes.
The new visibility is not so surprising. Greenspan is a Republican of
impeccable credentials: appointed by Ronald Reagan; a former employee
of Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford; and, as one Reagan aide puts it, ``a
key player in more Republican presidential campaigns, platforms and
administrations than any other economist in the country.''
With his party in complete control of Congress for the first time in 40
years, Greenspan's influence is perhaps greater now than it ever has
been.
And yet, by an irony, the very realignment that has enhanced his power
may also turn out to make harder his main task: guiding a slowing
economy to a ``soft landing'' rather than a hard recession.
At the moment, of course, the economy is doing anything but slowing.
Last year output grew by 4 percent and is still surging ahead. The
unemployment rate fell by more than a full percentage point, to 5.5
percent (and to nearly 5 percent outside California).
Labor shortages are starting to crop up. So, too, are the faint signs
of incipient inflation, such as rising commodity prices.
And so when Greenspan convenes the meeting of the Federal Open-Market
Committee on Jan. 31, the chances are high that it will vote to put up
short-term rates.
If that happens, as looks likely, it will be the seventh such rate
increase in less than a year. So far the Clinton administration has
greeted the escalation with considerable stoicism: a sensible stance.
Before Greenspan began raising rates last February, he had not done so
for five years. Had the booming economy remained unrestrained through
1994, inflation would almost certainly have arrived already.
But now Greenspan faces a trickier task, both economically and
politically. Everyone knows last year's rate increases will slow the
economy. The question is when, and by how much.
Greenspan's own suspicions are not much more reliable than anyone
else's. But in pursuit of a soft landing, the chairman may well decide
that rates need to be hiked several times over the next few months.
David Hale of Kemper Financial Services is not alone in thinking that,
to slow growth to around 2.5 percent, the Fed could be forced to raise
short-term rates from 5.5 percent today to 8 percent by the end of the
year.
With the prospect of the Fed's actions hitting home as the 1996 primary
season gets under way, both Democrats and Republicans are getting ready
for a downturn.
Naturally, each side will blame the other. But both may attack the Fed
just as sharply.
In the White House, Clinton's tongue was long held by Lloyd Bentsen;
now the new treasury secretary, Robert Rubin, has that slippery job.
But other members of Clinton's economic team, and several of his
political advisers, are urging him to squeal if the Fed raises rates
again.
Republicans, too, are likely to attack Greenspan. Late last year Newt
Gingrich said he thought rising interest rates were ``a real problem''
and then backpedaled furiously. But he also suggested that the economy
could grow by as much as 5 percent without sparking inflation.
And James Saxton, a House Republican who is the new vice-chairman of
the joint economic committee, has already blamed the Fed in advance for
the recession he sees ahead.
Greenspan has been here before, standing up simultaneously to bullying
from both the White House and his fellow Republicans during George
Bush's tenure.
But this time something is different: both parties are pursuing
tax-cutting policies which are bound to make his job more difficult.
For whether or not Republicans come up on paper with the spending cuts
to offset their tax-chopping, investors will be suspicious that the
cuts are phony or temporary; that the tax reductions will prove more
costly than expected; and that the deficit will therefore balloon.
Such is the stuff that fuels inflationary expectations -- which
Greenspan would surely feel compelled to stamp down.
The chairman will no doubt be hoping that cooler heads prevail -- and
not just for the sake of the economy.
With his term due to run out in early 1996, he has been angling for
reappointment since Clinton arrived; cabinet officials report being
called repeatedly for breakfast and flattery from Greenspan.
The Republican takeover on Capitol Hill seemed to many within the
administration to seal the deal. Who else would so easily fly through
confirmation in the Senate?
If the economy crash-lands, however, so too may Greenspan's hopes of
another series of state of the unions spent at home by choice.
