Iron Defense Turns Newcomer Betis into Title Challenger 
With its first -- and last -- first-division crown now 60 years old,
Real Betis Balompie is not a club that earns instant recognition.
Even with as many league titles as its cross-town rival Sevilla FC, it
still gets second billing in its own city.
But after not having allowed a goal in five rounds and a defense that
has allowed five fewer goals than anybody else in the first division,
Betis is getting a lot of notice.
Among its victims in the five-game shutout streak was league leader
Real Madrid two weeks ago. Madrid has the best-scoring offense by far,
13 more goals than its next closest rival.
The last time Betis allowed a goal was against four-time defending
champion FC Barcelona in a 1-1 draw Dec. 22. And the last time it lost
was 2-1 to Valladolid on Dec. 11 -- a seven-match unbeaten streak that
has moved the club into fourth place six points behind Madrid.
``This is an authentic miracle,'' said Rogelio Roman, head of soccer
coverage for Mundo Deportivo, Barcelona's sports daily. ``This is a
team with no name, nobody well-known.''
Moving in and out of the first division for decades, Betis' only league
title was in 1935. A victory Sunday against lowly Albacete could move
Betis into a third-place tie with Barcelona.
Barcelona visits Racing Santander on Saturday.
In other games Sunday, Real Madrid gets last-placed Logrones at home,
Deportivo is at Gijon to play Sporting, Valencia is at Sevilla,
Atletico Madrid is home against Tenerife, Zaragoza hosts Real Sociedad,
Oviedo is at Compostela, Espanol plays at home to Valladolid, and Celta
travels to Bilbao to play Athletic.
Much of Betis' credit, says Roman, goes to coach Lorenzo Serra Ferrer,
who took over Betis in the second half of last season and brought it
back into the first division.
Serra consolidated the remarkable Betis defense by bringing Serbian
midfielder Vlada Stosic with him when he left Mallorca last year. Then
he hired Serbian defender Hristo Vidakovic, and bought defender Jose
Tomas Valdomino from Rayo Vallecano and goalkeeper Pedro Luis Jaro from
Real Madrid.
Jaro has allowed only 10 goals in the first 20 rounds of the 38-game
schedule, one of the best records in Europe this season.
The Betis offense is powered by Spanish international Angel Manuel
Cuellar, whose nine goals make him one of the top five scorers this
season.
Serra added firepower early this season in Polish forward Wojciech
Kowalczyk, who scored the lone goal in the team's 1-0 victory against
Logrones last week.
The foreigners did so well that U.S. international Tab Ramos, who
missed much of the first half of the season recovering from a fractured
orbit bone suffered in a foul by Brazilian defender Leonardo at the
World Cup, wasn't able to get back into the lineup and transfered to
Mexico last month.
``I think the first half was excellent, and nobody expected it,'' Roman
said. ``But they face a tough second half.''
