Militant Palestinian And Jewish Groups Dismiss Asset Freeze 
Militant Palestinian and Jewish groups targeted by President Clinton's
freeze on their U.S. assets dismissed the decision Wednesday as
ineffective and said they would keep trying to torpedo Mideast peace.
Israel and the PLO, however, welcomed Clinton's decision Tuesday to
freeze U.S. assets of 12 groups and 18 individuals accused of
undermining peacemaking through terrorism.
The freeze came two days after a suicide bombing in central Israel
killed 19 Israelis. The Islamic Jihad, one of the groups on Clinton's
list, claimed responsibility.
A spokesman for the Muslim militant group Hamas said Clinton is
``deluding himself if he thinks that his action will pressure Hamas or
restrict its activities.''
``Hamas' confrontation with the enemy will not be affected by these
measures and its operations against Israel will continue,'' the
spokesman, Imad Falouji, said in Gaza City.
Baruch Marzel of the anti-Arab Kach movement said activists in the
United States were tipped off three weeks ago about the planned freeze
and cleared out most of the group's bank accounts.
``We prepared, and the damage is very small, a few thousand dollars,''
said Marzel, speaking from his home in a Jewish enclave in the
Palestinian West Bank town of Hebron. ``They couldn't freeze something
they couldn't find.''
Israel outlawed Kach and an offshoot, Kahane Chai, after a Kach member
shot and killed 29 Muslim worshipers in a Hebron mosque in February in
an attempt to derail Israel-PLO talks.
Kahane Chai is also on Clinton's blacklist. Both groups advocate
expelling all Arabs from Israel, the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Clinton's move was ``further proof
of the extent of the administration's involvement in and support for
the peace process, for which Israel is most grateful.''
Itamar Rabinovich, Israel's ambassador to Washington, said the freeze
would have an immediate effect on the targeted groups. ``This is just
the beginning of a crusade,'' Rabinovich said on Israel army radio.
U.S. Jewish groups lobbied for the assets freeze and Israel gave the
Americans intelligence information about the transfer of funds to
Islamic terror groups, Rabinovich told the Haaretz newspaper.
In the Gaza Strip, Arafat's spokesman Marwan Kanafani said the asset
freeze ``was a step in the right direction.''
``We hope this will slow down the activities of those who are enemies
of peace,'' he said. Arafat, he said, had raised the issue with
Clinton.
The Islamic Jihad and Hamas, who oppose the Israel-PLO autonomy accord,
are Arafat's most powerful political rivals.
