New Guatemalan president takes office with full agenda
Conservative businessman Alvaro Arzu was sworn in as president of
Guatemala Sunday, savoring his election victory before confronting the
poverty and violence that have plagued the nation for years.
Arzu, 49, was elected January 7 after narrowly defeating fellow
conservative Alfonso Portillo. His inauguration marks the longest
stretch of elected civilian rule in Guatemala's 174 years of
independence
Replacing outgoing President Ramiro DeLeon, Arzu embarks on his
five-year term with a clear challenge to the military, still the most
powerful player in the country's politics.
He has broken with precedent by naming the defense minister and
declaring he will not live in the presidential palace under protection
from the presidential high command, the army unit that guards
Guatemalan presidents.
Although he won election by fewer than 31,000 votes, Arzu enjoys a
solid political base as he moves to fulfill a vow to put an end to
"privileges and an economy of speculation."
"I will not bow to pressure from either the military or the private
sector," he said in a recent interview, promising to represent all
sectors of Guatemalan society.
Arzu's Party of National Advancement (PAN) controls the Congress,
holding 43 of 80 seats. He also has the support of the church and
enjoys a certain neutrality from the Guatemalan left.
Arzu now faces four great challenges: poverty, lack of personal
security, militarism, and achieving peace with leftist rebels waging
the oldest insurgency in Latin America.
His decision to back accords already signed by leftist rebels was
deemed a "constructive" step by the National Guatemalan Revolutionary
Unit (URNG), an umbrella group of guerrillas.
The URNG said it would "welcome any positive measures aimed at reaching
a national accord" to end the 35-year-old civil war, which has left
100,000 dead and 40,000 missing.
Human rights abuses are another area Arzu has vowed to tackle, saying
after being elected that he would attack the problem "with
determination and energy but within the confines of the law."
The human rights prosecutor said Saturday that 17,500 human rights
complaints were filed in 1995, a 20 percent rise from the previous
year.
And some 223 extrajudicial assassinations were carried out in the
country, where, according to a UN report, "torture appears to be
endemic."
