Mubarak says no Ethiopian, Eritrean involvement in Sudan fighting 
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said on Saturday that Ethiopia and
Eritrea were not involved in fighting along Sudan's eastern border, the
official Egyptian news agency MENA reported.
"What is happening now in Sudan are internal Sudanese problems.
Ethiopia and Eritrea are not involved, as Sudan claims, in the
attacks," Mubarak said at the opening of an international book fair in
Cairo, MENA said.
Mubarak's remarks came three days after he received Sudanese Vice
President Al-Zubair Mohammad Saleh in Cairo.
A spokesman for Sudanese opposition group the National Democratic
Alliance (NDA), which groups the northern opposition and southern
rebels, said Mubarak's statement showed Sudan's failure to drum up
support.
"Mubarak's position is a clear response to Sudanese claims ... and to
the desperate attempt by Zubair to fake the facts and exaggerate them.
What is happening in Sudan are Sudanese-Sudanese combats," said Faruk
Ahmad Adam, NDA deputy secretary general in charge of information.
He said Sudan tried to win support from Egypt by suggesting that its
Nile resources were under threat and that Israel was planning
intervention in the region.
"It failed. These cards Sudan tried to play have no value anymore for
Egypt or for any other country," Adam said.
Sudan tried to secure Egypt's support against the attacks on its
eastern border, which it said were launched by Ethiopia and Eritrea.
But Egypt insisted on giving a low-profile to the meeting, barring
television crews from filming the encounter and failing to issue any
official statement afterwards.
"The Egyptian government has underlined its support to the unity of the
Sudan," Saleh said in a press statement published Saturday in Khartoum.
"Sudan and Egypt have underlined the need for warming up the coolness
that had occurred in their bilateral relations and the restoration of
those relations to normality," he said.
"The picture of what is going on following the Ethiopian invasion and
on what is happening in east Sudan was clear to the Egyptians and the
viewpoints were identical," Saleh said.
Washington has expressed concern about the tension between Sudan and
its neighbours, while Ethiopia and Eritrea have both denied any
involvement in the fighting.
Relations between Egypt and Sudan have been traditionally strained and
took a turn for the worse after Cairo claimed that Khartoum was
harbouring Egyptian Islamic militants accused of trying to kill Mubarak
in 1995 in Addis Ababa.
So far the only show of solidarity for Sudan has come from Yemen, Iraq
and Qatar, whose government has set up a ministerial committee charged
with bringing "assistance needed by the Sudanese people."
Mubarak, who was speaking during a meeting with intellectuals, writers
and journalists, also denied Arab press reports suggesting that Egypt,
Saudi Arabia and Syria would hold a summit soon to discuss the future
of Middle East after the Hebron accord.
