WASHINGTON The United States Wednesday called on Russia not to take any
military actions against Chechnya to wipe out terrorists that had planted
bombs in Russian cities, killing nearly 300 people. State Department
spokesman James Foley said this was friendly advice from the United
States. Taking any military actions "could actually worsen the situation,"
he added. (US-Russia-Chechnya) - - - - MOSCOW -- Federal fighter jets have
made about 300 air raids on rebel positions in the breakaway republic of
Chechnya in the past 10 days, Air Force Commander-in-Chief Colonel General
Anatoly Kornukov said Wednesday. He said the raids destroyed over 100
militants, seven strongholds and seven training bases. Ten motor vehicles,
four ammunition depots, 10 fuel depots and bridges were destroyed. (
Russia-Chechnya-Air Campaign) - - - - UNITED NATIONS -- Yugoslavia
Wednesday slammed the Tuesday " mortar attack on Serbian civilians" as "a
gruesome terrorist act" by the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA), saying
that the incident mirrors the failure of KLA transformation. In a press
release issued here, the Yugoslav Mission to the United Nations said that
the mortar attack on Serbian civilians at the Kosovo Polje market on
September 28, 1999 has created two deaths and 39 injuries. The two killed
were Serbian civilians, it said. (UN-Yugoslavia-Kosovo) - - - - UNITED
NATIONS -- Malaysia on Wednesday criticized the unequal world order which
allows the powerful nations to set the rule for others. Prime Minister
Mahathir Mohamad said with the end of the Cold War "the liberal democratic
free market capitalists see no more need to be gentle in spreading their
systems or in profiting from them."  (UN-Malaysia) - - - - SANTIAGO --
Chilean government is to file suit against Spain before the international
tribunal of The Hague over the Pinochet case in December, Foreign Minister
Juan Gabriel Valdes reaffirmed on Wednesday. Chilean Foreign Ministry
communicated this decision in a formal manner to the Spanish Foreign
Ministry, during a meeting in Madrid. (Chile-Suit-Spain)
