Singapore Telecom sets up property subsidiary 
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. has set up an investment holding
subsidiary seen as a vehicle for a possible move into the lucrative
property business in the face of coming competition.
A spokesman for Singapore Telecom said Thursday that the wholly-owned
subsidiary, KA Land Pte. Ltd., would undertake the development of a
pair of leasehold properties into factory complexes.
Development work on the two sites, with an area of 7,968 square metres
(85,735 square feet) and 4,182 square metres (44,998 square feet), is
expected to be completed by October 1997, he said.
"Notwithstanding this, telecommunications remains the core business of
the group," the spokesman added.
KA Land has an authorised capital of 120 million Singapore dollars
(85.71 million US).
The Straits Times quoted unnamed sources as saying the move signalled
Singapore Telecom's diversification into the property business at a
time when it is preparing for the arrival of competition in four years'
time.
The move came on the heels of a May 11 government announcement that the
basic telecommunications market would be thrown open to full
competition by 2000, seven years ahead of schedule.
The government offered to pay Singapore Telecom 1.5 billion dollars as
compensation for losses from the early scrapping of its monopoly on
local and international telephone services. Its monopoly on paging and
cellular phone services runs out next April.
Market observers quoted by The Straits Times said entry into the
property business made sense because telecom competition could result
in lower margins and loss of market share.
But analysts ruled out a major move away from the company's core
business.
"Their major focus should be still on telecom investment," an
investment research analyst with a foreign securities house told AFP.
"Property is a lot riskier, something they are not familiar with."
"I will not take it as a major change in investment strategy. SingTel
will not move away from its core competency," the analyst added.
With a market capitalisation of more than 40 billion dollars and 1.3
million local shareholders, Singapore Telecom is one of the largest
listed companies in Asia outside of Japan.
In its last income statement, Singapore Telecom, which went public in
1993, reported a 9.5 percent jump in net profit to 740 million
Singapore dollars in the six months to September 1995 on revenues of
1.96 billion dollars.
