23 people killed in Moslem gunbattles in Philippines 
At least 23 people, 15 of them Moslem guerrillas, were killed in
gunbattles with security forces in the southern Philippines, a senior
army commander said here Sunday.
Around 2,000 Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) rebels mounted
simultaneous dawn attacks on army outposts in 10 village around the
towns of Lambayung and Sultan Sabarongis on Saturday, said Brigadier
General Raul Urgello, commander of the Sixth Infantry Division.
The army fought off the attacks using heavy weapons, killing 15 MILF
rebels. One soldier and seven civilians were also killed, he said.
Urgello said the MILF rebels blew up a bridge in Lambayung, Sultan
Kudarat province while retreating, resulting in the deaths of three
Moslem civilians hiding under the span.
It was the worst fighting this year between the army and the MILF, a
breakaway faction of the main Moslem insurgent group Moro National
Liberation Front (MNLF).
The MNLF is now engaged in peace talks with the government to settle
more than two decades of sectarian strife in the main southern island
of Mindanao, where there has been a truce since 1993.
Peace negotiations have been stalled over disagreements on the issue of
Moslem self-rule in this largely Roman Catholic country.
MILF leaders, who have been excluded from the talks, said they are
waiting for the results before they decide on whether to accept it or
pursue their war for an independent Moslem state in the south.
"We have exercised maximum restraint but they attacked us so we fought
back," Urgello said, referring to an informal ceasefire between the
army and the MILF in the area.
Soldiers recovered 10 assorted firearms from the slain rebels, he said.
Local officials said more than 5,000 Christian and Moslem residents in
the affected villages have been forced to flee their homes for fear of
being caught in the crossfire.
MILF military commander Al Haj Murad said in a radio interview Saturday
night that peace and order in the Central Mindanao region, which he
claimed is his group's stronghold, will remain a problem because of the
presence of the military.
Urgello said he had deployed three army battalions in the towns of
Lambayung and Sultan Sabarongis. Part of their mission is to secure an
onshore oil exploration project between the state-run Philippine
National Oil Co. and a Malaysian firm.
The MILF has claimed the area to be their ancestral homeland.
Urgello said the military will observe the informal ceasefire with the
MILF but warned that the rebels will "suffer the consequence" if they
launched another attack.
Murad said the MILF is open for for a dialogue but admitted he cannot
completely control the acts of his field commanders.
