Precede SOLOTHURN Roman Catholic Bishop Resigns in Pregnancy Shock 
One of Switzerland's most progressive and popular bishops resigned in a
pregnancy scandal Friday, prompting new questions about celibacy rules
and new problems for the country's Roman Catholic church.
``Since my election to bishop I have experienced heavier spiritual
burdens,'' said a statement by Hansjoerg Vogel, who took over last year
as bishop of Switzerland's largest diocese, Basel.
``I thus sought greater support in a relationship with a woman I knew
previously. This relationship led to a pregnancy,'' said the
44-year-old Vogel in a letter to his ``brothers and sisters'' in the
diocese.
Pope John Paul II accepted the resignation of Vogel as 92nd bishop of
Basel, effective immediately. He named an auxiliary bishop, Monsignor
Joseph Candolfi, as temporary successor.
The Swiss Conference of Bishops said they learned of the resignation
with ``great sadness but equally great respect'' for Vogel.
In an outpouring of support, other leading church figures paid tribute
to the courage of Vogel in making the announcement.
Vogel could not be contacted. His motives for going public were
unclear. There had been no rumors in the Swiss press about his affair.
His statement implied the child had not yet been born but there was no
confirmation of this and no clue on the identity of the woman.
``I know that my failings will disappoint many believers,'' said Vogel.
``They had expectations of me which I couldn't fulfill ... I just
couldn't deal with my personal problems,'' he said.
There have been a series of sexual scandals in the Catholic church
worldwide, although this is the first in Switzerland.
In one of the most notorious cases, the archbishop of Santa Fe in New
Mexico resigned in 1993 after seven women alleged they had sex with
him, some while in their teens.
In 1992, Ireland was rocked by news that one of its leading bishops had
fathered a son 17-years before and given nearly dlrs 120,000 in church
funds to the mother.
Vogel, who spoke out in favor of ordaining married men as priests, said
he realized his case unintentionally would lead to a new discussion of
the requirement that priests stay single.
``New mistrust will arise over whether priests really can carry out
their commitment to celibacy,'' he said. ``I still am convinced that
fulfilled life is possible in celibacy.''
However, the liberal theologian Rev. Hans Kueng disagreed and renewed
calls for the abolition of the ``inhuman and unchristian'' law.
``When will the Swiss bishops, who will probably try to hide behind
silence again, declare openly that they want Rome to scrap this law,
which has caused so much hypocrisy in the Church and so much suffering
for the affected women,'' he said. Kueng, a Swiss who teaches in
Germany, is well-known for his clashes with Rome.
Vogel was the sixth Swiss bishop to stand down in less than two years _
most of the others were on health grounds.
During his short term as head of a flock of 1.1 million devout in the
Basel diocese, he earned widespread respect. As pastor in a parish in
Bern he had granted refuge to foreigners threatened with deportation
and earned a reputation for openness. Progressive Catholics saw him as
a symbol of hope and a counterweight to conservative bishops appointed
by the pope.
The Swiss Catholic Church has been deeply divided for the past five
years following the appointment of Wolfgang Haas, as Bishop of Chur,
the country's second biggest diocese.
Haas was accused of authoritarianism and his negative views on the role
of women, and many of his flock quit the church.
The Cathedral Chapter of Basel will elect Vogel's successor according
to its own ancient traditions which are independent of Rome. However,
the selection procedure is likely to rekindle the progressive verus
conservative debate. (cn-pvs)
