Clinton Blasts Paramilitary Groups and `Dark Underside' of Society
Speaking straight to disaffected Americans in paramilitary groups or to
any others who may advocate violence, President Clinton Friday
defiantly declared: ``How dare you suggest that we in the freest nation
on earth live in tyranny.''
``How dare you call yourselves patriots and heroes,'' Clinton demanded.
``There is nothing patriotic about hating your country or pretending
that you can love your country but despise your government.''
In his most outspoken remarks to date, Clinton chose a commencement
address at Michigan State University to decry the ``dark underside''
that comes with the freedoms of American society.
``The dark possibilities of our age are visible now in the smoke, the
horror and the heartbreak of Oklahoma City,'' Clinton told more 6,000
graduates.
The final death toll of the Oklahoma bombing, officials are almost
certain, will be 167. Nineteen children are among the dead.
Addressing himself directly to members of the militia movement, which
is particularly strong in Michigan, Clinton acknowledged that many
militia members are law-abiding citizens who exercise their right to
criticize the government.
``I will do everything in my power to protect your right to do so,'' he
said. But Clinton went on to point out that ``there have been
lawbreakers among those who espouse your philosophies.''
``I ask you to hear me now,'' he continued. ``It is one thing to
believe that the federal government has too much power and to work
within the law to reduce it. It is quite another to break the law of
the land and threaten to shoot officers of the law if all they do is
uphold it.''
Clinton told the graduates they were inheriting a world with both
uplifting and unsettling possibilities, and urged them to do their part
to responsibly foster unity and optimism.
Clinton's words had particular resonance in Michigan in the aftermath
of the Oklahoma City terrorist attack. Militant anti-government groups
such as the Michigan Militia have gained national attention because of
the links of some to Timothy McVeigh, the main suspect in the bombing.
McVeigh is a friend of James and Terry Nichols, brothers who have been
was charged with conspiring with McVeigh to make explosive devices at a
farmhouse in Decker, Michigan. The brothers had attended meetings of
the Michigan Militia but have been disavowed by the group.
In an interview published in Friday's Detroit Free Press, Clinton said
a ``healthy suspicion'' of government is the right of every American.
But he denounced the words of extremist talk-show hosts and others he
said are promoting hatred and division, singling out G. Gordon Liddy by
name.
``Some speech is wrong,'' Clinton said. He said some talk shows feed
sentiment toward ``violence and lashing out.''
Clinton in recent days has broadly denounced divisive speech and some
``things that are said regularly over the airwaves.'' His criticisms
Friday were more pointed, decrying statements on talk shows and
elsewhere ``that are just purely fostering hatred, division and
encouraging violence.'' He singled out Liddy.
Liddy, who has a syndicated radio show, has denied his program
represents ``hate radio'' or incites violence.
Liddy has counseled listeners to shoot at the head or body mass if
attacked by federal agents wearing bulletproof vests. And he has spoken
openly about using stick figures of Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton as
targets during shooting practice.
