First ANC finance minister prepares tight South African budget
South Africa's first finance minister to come from the ranks of the
governing African National Congress (ANC) is expected to balance
priorities when he presents his budget to parliament on Wednesday.
Finance Minister Trevor Manuel, who succeeded independent Chris
Liebenberg a year ago, is expected to honour a promise by President
Nelson Mandela at the recent opening of parliament that this will be
the year when previous pledges are implemented.
But he was also expected to follow the financial orthodoxy laid down by
the ANC-led government which came to power in May 1994 with the end of
the apartheid system of white minority rule.
In line with the government's reconstruction and development programme,
designed to reduce the effects of the glaring racial inequalities of
the past, more money will have to be spent on housing, health and
education in particular.
According to official sources, a total of 4.4 billion rands (990
million dollars) will be injected in these areas.
At the same time large cuts are planned in defence spending for the
second year running, as well as in a number of other public services.
But as South Africa faces a severe crime wave, the government wants to
revamp the police and justice departments before making more money
available to them.
For the new tax year beginning at the end of March economists are
forecasting expenditure of 186 billion rands (42 billion dollars) and
revenue of 163 billion rands (36.6 billion dollars).
This is in line with the four-percent deficit laid down in the
government's broad economic strategy up to the end of the century,
In a recent interview Manuel said he was confident of reaching this
target, without having recourse to the large amounts of cash coming
from the extensive privatisation programme now under way.
A general increase in the 14-percent value added tax is unlikely, amid
fears expressed by the government's trade union allies that it would
hit the poor hardest.
However a rise of the tax on cigarettes or alcohol is expected, despite
a developing black market in both products, and on motor fuel.
Manuel could also introduce a land tax and a capital gains tax, but it
is recalled that the government has had problems collecting a tax
introduced last year on interest accumulated by pension funds.
To try to increase the amount of tax collected the revenue service is
recruiting a thousand more staff and a law giving it more autonomy will
be introduced this year. Experts have commented that reform of the
service is needed.
Taxpayers meanwhile are hoping for a repetition of last year's cut in
income tax for those at the lower end of the income scale.
But companies fear that a 12.5-percent tax on dividends will be
maintained, and even that the exemption with regard to general expenses
will be abolished.
Pressure is increasing for a removal of exchange controls, but the
government has the support of the International Monetary Fund in
avoiding anything drastic.
The governor of the central bank, Chris Stals, recently suggested that
indviduals might be allowed to open accounts in foreign currency, and
that those who leave South Africa should be able to take their money
with them.
For many analysts this fiscal year will be a test of the ANC's capacity
to govern on its own, following the decision last June of the former
ruling National Party to go into opposition.
The National Party was the ANC's junior partner in a coalition
government from the start of the present dispensation in 1994, and
initially held the finance ministry.
