Dalai Lama to meet New Zealand PM: Official 
Tibet's spiritual leader the Dalai Lama will meet New Zealand Prime
Minister Jim Bolger Wednesday despite protests from China, a government
spokeswoman said.
A spokeswoman for Bolger said Tuesday that Chinese concerns "had been
noted" but the meeting would go ahead.
New Zealand maintains that Bolger and Foreign Minister Don McKinnon
will see the Dalai Lama in his capacity as a religious figure.
Australian Prime Minister John Howard has yet to confirm whether he
will meet the Tibetan leader, who arrives there Saturday for a two-week
tour.
Confirmation of the Bolger meeting came as the Dalai Lama was greeted
by indigenous Maoris and Buddhists as he arrived in Wellington Tuesday
for a four-day visit.
Soon after his arrival at Wellington Airport, the Dalai Lama, 61, was
given a traditional welcome at a tribal meeting place, known as a
marae, where he and Maori elders discussed problems common to Tibet and
to New Zealand's indigenous people.
The Chinese government regards the Dalai Lama, a Nobel laureate, not as
Tibet's spiritual leader but as a political exile.
China regularly protests when any country hosts the Dalai Lama.
In a statement, the Chinese Embassy in Wellington said the Dalai Lama's
visit to New Zealand represented interference in China's internal
affairs.
It said Tibet was an integral part of China.
"The Dalai Lama is not purely a religious personage but a political
exile who engages in political activities aimed at disrupting national
unity.
"The Chinese government and people are resolutely against his visit to
New Zealand in whatever capacity and under whatever reason, to conduct
activities aimed at separating the motherland," it said.
The Chinese foreign ministry issued a statement last month putting
pressure on Australia not to hold "any official engagement" with the
Dalai Lama.
The statement was issued following reports that Howard had been advised
by foreign office experts against meeting the Dalai Lama to avoid
souring already strained relationships with China.
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer has agreed to a private meeting with
the Dalai Lama who is visiting from September 14-29 on his third trip
since 1982.
The Chinese statement said the Dalai Lama was not just a religious
figure, but a political exile who had been "actively engaged in trying
to split the motherland, encourage Tibetan independence and damage
national unity."
