Pakistani President Highly Comments on Role of China 
A strong and prosperous China will be a pillar of strength for
promoting the interests of the developing countries and for
safeguarding international peace and security, Pakistani President
Rafiq Tarar has said.
In a recent interview with Xinhua on the occasion of the 50th
anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China which
falls on October 1, the president said the reform and opening-up policy
pursued by the Chinese government would enable China to gain more
economic strength and raise the living standards of its people.
He noted that the policy initiated by late senior Chinese leader Deng
Xiaoping with economic construction in the center has been proved "the
only correct way for China to develop under its own situation."
The achievements made by China in various fields are well known since
it adopted the reform and opening-up policy two decades ago, said the
president.
Tarar spoke highly of Deng Xiaoping as "a great leader, full of vision
and realism."
"China now emerges as the pillar of political and economic strength and
stability in the region and beyond, the Chinese people have every
reason to be proud of their spectacular achievements," Tarar noted.
The president said the leaders of new China have exhibited rare
qualities of wisdom, patriotism and pragmatism.
"Modern China now stands as a shining symbol of their vision and
dedication. We, in Pakistan, admire their unmatched attributes and
selfless leadership," he said.
On the prospect of peaceful reunification of China, Tarar said, "The
successful implementation of 'One China, Two Systems' is for everyone
to see in Hong Kong. Apprehensions expressed earlier have been proven
misplaced and biased."
"Likewise, the reunion of Macao in December this year and of Taiwan in
future will be marked by peace and reconciliation, bringing stability
and progress to all concerned," the president added.
On China's role in international affairs, Tarar said, "China's
constructive and responsible role is noteworthy in seeking a new world
order based on justice, equity and fairness."
"Its policy of resolving all issues threatening peace in the region and
beyond through cooperation and negotiations have earned it the
appreciation from all countries of the region and the international
community," Tarar added.
