Britain to Review Cattle Slaughter Plan: Major 
British Prime Minister John Major said here today that his government
would review a program to slaughter some 147,000 cattle most at risk
from BSE or mad cow disease, putting Britain on a collision course with
the European Union (EU).
Major, who is under increasing pressure from farmers and members of his
Conservative Party to scrap the slaughter plan, told reporters earlier
today that a cabinet meeting on Thursday would discuss new scientific
evidence.
Last month, some Oxford scientists, writing in the scientific journal
Nature, said that the mad cow disease would decline naturally and would
be over by 2001 without the planned slaughter of 147,000 cattle.
"Nobody should expect snap decisions but it is right to examine and
make sure the policy is correct in the light of new information we now
have. There is no pre-ordained outcome," Major said.
The government ministers are poised to shelve the number of cattle to
be slaughtered and likely to abandon the selective cull plan
altogether, according to local press reports.
Sir David Naish, President of the National Farmers Union, said in a BBC
Radio interview today that "First of all explore with Europe all the
opportunities and then make a decision. Don't make a decision based on
newspaper reports and scaremongering."
Meanwhile, the EU Commission said today in Brussels that a British
program to slaughter cattle most at risk of BSE was an essential part
of an agreement to lift the world-wide ban on British beef gradually.
Gerard Kiely, the EU Agriculture spokesman, told a press briefing in
Brussels, "The selective slaughter plan is an integral part of the
Florence agreement on a step-by-step lifting the export ban."
The EU imposed a global ban on British beef products exports on March
27 when the British government admitted that there were possible links
between the mad cow disease and its human equivalent Creutzfeldt-Jacob
Disease.
EU leaders agreed at the Florence in June to gradually lift the ban on
British beef exports on the condition that Britain should implement a
series of tough measures, including the slaughter of cattle most at
risk.
