Agreement Signed to End Conflict in Belarus 
Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko and Parliament Speaker
Semyon Sharetsky signed an agreement today under Russia's auspices to
end their political confrontation.
The agreement, reached after 10 hours of difficult negotiations, was
mediated by Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and Parliament
Speakers Yegor Stroyev and Russian Communist Party leader Gennady
Seleznyov.
Under the agreement, Belarus will hold a referendum on November 24 as
scheduled, but the results on the constitutional issues will be "of
recommendatory nature."
The agreement also holds that the impeachment procedures against
Lukashenko, proposed by 75 deputies of the 199-seat Belarussian
parliament, will be stopped.
Both Lukashenko and Sharetsky said that the agreement was achieved
through the mediation of the three Russian leaders, who arrived in
Minsk overnight to help resolve the political crisis in Belarus,
Russia's closest ally within the Commonwealth of Independent States
(CIS).
Sharetsky stressed that the negotiations could not have been so
successful without the participation of Russian leaders, adding that
"there are no winners: only common sense has triumphed."
Chernomyrdin told reporters that he had not taken part in such
difficult negotiations for the past 15 years, saying that "this is a
very important step: the confrontation has actually been stopped."
The months of confrontation between Lukashenko and the parliament was
caused by constitutional amendments proposed by Lukashenko and expected
to be decided at the forthcoming national referendum.
The constitutional amendments, which were allegedly to be planned to
enlarge power of the head of state, have been opposed by a great number
of parliament deputies who urged to impeach Lukashenko.
The newly reached agreement, to be endorsed today by the parliament,
says that the final version of the Constitution will be worked out by a
Constitutional Assembly, made up of 50 deputies of the parliament and
50 representatives of the president, to be convened within 20 days.
The assembly will be chaired by Lukashenko and the new Constitution
will be drawn up on the basis of either of the draft versions -- one
proposed by the president and another submitted by the parliament.
The Constitutional Assembly is expected to adopt the new constitution
within three months.
