China to Dominate Table Tennis Worlds, But to What Extent? 
The top Chinese table tennis official says he will be happy if Chinese
win half of the gold medals in the World Championships here, but many
think behind his low-profile guess is a bigger ambition.
Xu Yinsheng, president of the Chinese Table Tennis Association, told
reporters early this month that he had his eyes on three or four titles
in the Manchester Worlds, repeating the same prediction he did days
before last championships in Tianjin, where Chinese cashed in on
home-court advantage to sweep all seven titles.
With a rising number of rivals and the fact they are playing away from
home, Chinese players will find it impossible to repeat the clean-sweep
feat, which they first did in the 1981 championships.
Led by men's world No.1 Kong Linghui and women's top player Deng
Yaping, the Chinese team remains the strongest among the world. Five
titles should be a reasonable guess for Chinese.
The Swaythling Cup for the men's team title is expected to be decided
between China and Sweden, who had met for six times in the latest seven
finals and pulled even with each winning three.
China will field Kong, Olympic champion Liu Guoliang and
chopper-attacker Ding Song and veterans Wang Tao and Ma Wenge to the
team competitions, the same five who won the trophy in the last Worlds.
Sweden is to send a team led by 1992 Olympic champion Jan-Ove Waldner,
Jorgen Persson and Peter Karlsson, the trio who lost the finals 3-2 in
Tianjin.
The trophy will very likely go to the team with a smarter lineup.
Waldner has beaten Kong in all four clashes but never had advantage of
Liu while Karlsson is wary of Ding, who caught the Swede nonplussed by
his chop-and-attack play in the Tianjin championships.
China is expected to field Liu instead of Kong to checkmate Waldner if
the world best two teams meet in the final. Ding, who had beaten
Persson in last championships, and Wang Tao, who plays an aggressive
close-to-table game, are likely choices.
The Chinese women team is a hot favorite for the Corbillion Cup.
Possible challengers are Japan, Chinese Taipei and South Korea.
The men's singles title will be the most difficult to predict. Chinese
Kong, Liu and Wang, Waldner, European top player Vladmir Samsonov,
France's 1993 world champion Jean-Philippe Gatien, former world No. 1
Jean-Michael Saive and Olympic quarter-finalist Petr Korpel of Czech
Republic all stands a chance to win the conveted title.
"I won't be surprised if anyone of the world top 20 wins the St. Bride
Vase," said Chinese coach Cai Zhenhua.
Deng Yaping, who has won 15 world championships and World Cup titles
and four Olympic gold medals, is an odds-on favorite in the women's
singles event. Her major rivals will be Koyama Chire of Japan and
Chinese Taipei's Chen Jing.
The 23-year-old Deng and the 20-year-old Kong Linghui will also have a
crack at the mixed doubles title, an event usually ignored by
Europeans.
Deng is also heavily tipped to take the doubles event. Since she has
combined with fast-attacker Yang Ying, the duo has never lost a match
in international competitions.
Those who have a chance to win the men's doubles event are Chinese
combinations Yan Sen/Wang Liqin and Olympic champions Kong Linghui/Liu
Guoliang, and a duo of German Jorg Rosskopf and Samsonov.
Rosskopf and Samsonov are the runners-up in last championships whose
winners Wang Tao and Liu Lin has split up with Wang pairing up with
teanager Ma Lin.
Yan and Wang jumped to fame last September as they won the Grand Prix
Finals which attracted a strong field including Olympic and world
champions.
