US pushes ahead with buildup as Iraq says it has defused crisis
The United States pushed ahead with its military buildup in the Gulf on
Saturday and sent its defence secretary to the region as Iraq withdrew
a threat to US aircraft but vowed to fight back if attacked.
"Their Stealth planes and their cruise missiles can go to hell. They
can't kill us all. We shall fight to the last Iraqi citizen," pledged
the newspaper Babel, run by President Saddam Hussein's eldest son Uday.
In an abrupt turnaround, Iraq announced late Friday a suspension of
attacks against Allied warplanes patrolling "no-fly" zones over its
territory.
The announcement, following mediation by Russia which condemned US
missile attacks earlier this month, came just hours after US F-117
Stealth and more F-16 fighters started to arrive in neighbouring
Kuwait.
Deputy Foreign Minister Ryadh al-Quasi said Baghdad's climbdown on the
no-fly zones was sincere. "Let's hope that the American administration
will look at it that way and adopt the necessary measures," he said.
But the United States, which has vowed to avenge Iraqi challenges to
the exclusion zones for Iraqi aircraft imposed after the 1991 Gulf War
for Kuwait, responded with scepticism.
"Actions speak louder than words and we'll be looking at actions not
statements," said White House spokesman Michael McCurry.
"It would be a wise move on Saddam's part. It would be a step toward
defusing tensions in the Gulf," acknowledged Pentagon spokesman Kenneth
Bacon, taking a milder stand.
Saddam had declared last week that Iraq no longer recognizes the zones.
The United States went ahead with plans to send 5,000 troops to Kuwait
over the weekend and Defense Secretary William Perry was headed for
talks with US allies in Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Pentagon
officials said.
Perry was expected to have left Friday night but the itinerary of his
mission to keep the anti-Iraqi coalition intact was kept secret.
The diplomatic initiative suggested that any US strikes would not come
immediately, despite tough talk from the administration of President
Bill Clinton in the middle of a re-election campaign.
Iraq was still confident however that its climbdown would foil any
further US attack. The government daily Al-Jumhuriya said it had
"deprived the United States of its pretext for new crimes."
Al-Jumhuriya said Iraq "has shown great restraint."
France, like Russia a critic of US cruise missile strikes earlier this
month after an Iraqi incursion into a Kurdish "safe haven," welcomed
Iraq's decision with "satisfaction."
