Iraqi defector denounces US for plotting overthrow of Saddam 
Iraq's most prominent defector, President Saddam Hussein's son-in-law
Hussein Kamel Hassan, on Wednesday denounced US Defence Secretary
William Perry for plotting to overthrow his country's government.
Hassan, Iraq's former industry minister who fled to Jordan in August
with his wife and other members of the ruling family, condemned Perry
for saying that the US was working with Jordan and other Arab nations
to topple Saddam.
"No country has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of
Iraq," he said, adding: "Any interference, whether American or from
another Arab country, will have counter effects and will be denounced
by the Iraqi people who will fight it."
Hassan, who has lived in Amman since being given asylum by Jordan in
August, welcomed political reforms and improvements in living
conditions in his homeland.
He also supported Iraq's talks with the United Nations on selling
limited quantities of oil to pay for food under UN resolution 986.
If the talks succeed, it would be the first partial easing of an oil
and trade embargo imposed on Iraq after its 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
"The discussions with the UN have started to bear fruit. The Iraqi
dinar has firmed up considerably against the dollar, which is positive
for the Iraqi people," he told AFP.
Hassan also welcomed the decision of the Iraqi authorities to authorise
the creation of political parties and to call legislative elections but
said he himself was not intending to set up a political party inside or
outside Iraq.
"But I will continue my political activities, whether or not I am in
conflict with the Baghdad regime," he said, adding that his return to
Iraq would depend on circumstances. "That could be very soon or much
later."
Hassan, the architect of Iraq's advanced weapons programme, also denied
a story in Foreign Report, published by the British firm Jane's, which
said his father-in-law was suffering from cancer of the lymphatic
glands.
"The president is in perfect health and is continuing his activities
normally," he said.
