Plot to kill ETimorese Nobel laureate foiled, says Australian bishop 
An Indonesian soldier died in a thwarted attempt to assassinate East
Timor's Catholic leader, Nobel laureate Bishop Carlos Belo, in Dili
late last year, an Australian bishop said Friday.
Melbourne's Catholic auxiliary bishop Hilton Deakin said he had
received information from East Timor that the attempt was to have been
made as Belo returned from the Nobel Peace Prize presentation in Norway
on November 10.
Deakin said an Indonesian soldier had been paid to kill the bishop
outside the Dili Cathedral but the plot was foiled by locals who
attacked and killed the soldier.
"There was found on the body -- and I've looked at the facts to check
this -- some hundreds of thousands of rupiahs...several thousand
Australian dollars equivalent," Deakin told ABC radio.
It was suggested that this was "payment money for the job to be done."
He said he had received a fax message from a prominent member of the
East Timorese Catholic community telling him of the conspiracy and the
soldier's death.
About 100,000 people had gathered to greet the bishop on his homecoming
and there was much tension in the crowd because of rumours of a planned
assassination attempt, he said.
"A group of young people in the town decided they would provide a
bodyguard to the bishop to go to the cathedral," Deakin added.
"They got to the cathedral and there was some sort of recognition by
groups of young people of another group that was outside the cathedral,
Indonesian soldiers, or at least men in Indonesia army uniform.
"Somebody had heard one of them speaking and saying derogatory things
about the bishop and he would get him, and so on.
"There was an awful scuffle. It's not known just what the sequence of
events was but eventually a dead body was found inside the cathedral
and, by all accounts, the smear of blood on the floor indicated the
body had been dragged into the cathedral after the person had been
severely wounded."
Deakin said there were several people nearby who had heard the soldier
talking of assassinating Belo, adding it was unclear to him who might
have ordered the killing.
