Cult Member Arrested With Chemicals in Car; Military Called In 
Police arrested a member of a shadowy cult following a dramatic car
chase in western Japan on Thursday, and military chemical specialists
were called in to check possibly toxic substances were found in the
car.
Amid an intensifying crackdown on the Aum Shinri Kyo cult, which is
under a growing cloud of suspicion in the Tokyo subway nerve gas
attack, authorities also launched a second round of searches at cult
facilities.
The Japanese military dispatched 14 dangerous-chemicals specialists to
the scene of the arrest, near Hikone in western Japan. The military
squad was treating the automobile with chemicals so it could be safely
examined, officials said.
After being stopped, the driver tried to evade police, running red
lights and crashing into a truck, police said. Japanese TV showed
footage of police and military blocking off the area, and residents
could be seen looking on anxiously.
Meanwhile, more than 500 police wearing protective gear and carrying
caged canaries as gas detectors carried out new searches and took soil
samples Thursday at a rural sect commune near Mount Fuji where they
found nerve-gas solvent the previous day.
Media reports said more unspecified chemicals were found at the site.
Raids Wednesday on 25 of the group's properties across Japan also
turned up nerve-gas solvent, 22 pounds of gold and dlrs 7.9 million in
cash.
Several members of the Aum Shinri Kyo group, whose name means Sublime
Truth, were arrested Wednesday in a kidnapping case unrelated to the
Tokyo subway attack. Police would not say whether they were also being
questioned in the subway case, in which nerve gas killed 10 and
sickened nearly 5,000.
The group has strenuously denied any role in the attack. There is no
known motive and no claim of responsibility.
News reports Thursday said those arrested during raids on Wednesday
were doctors. They have not been publicly linked them to the subway
attack.
On the Tokyo subways on Thursday, investigators sought help directly
from commuters who were the victims of Monday's attack. Police were
handing out 50,000 leaflets asking passengers to report anything
suspicious they had seen around the time of the attack.
Police were trying to confirm sketchy reports that a
``suspicious-looking man'' in his mid-40s entered the central Hibiya
Line at its starting poin with the chemicals in a paper bag, which he
set down before leaving the train at Ebisu station.
Another man is thought to have left a small package wrapped in
newspaper on the Hibiya line before running out of the train at
Kodenma-cho station.
Investigators have been examining evidence gathered in the subways for
several days now, and media reports say police are starting to piece
together a better picture of how the attack was carried out.
Police have found several fragments of broken glass inside boxlike
packages on affected trains, the daily Mainichi paper reported. Citing
sources, it said investigators theorized that attackers dropped or
kicked the packages to break the glass and fled while the fumes began
seeping out.
There was no word on the fate of a suspect police were reported to have
under guard in a hospital. Witnesses said he planted one of the deadly
parcels before being overcome by its fumes.
Japanese media said investigators were waiting until he recovered
sufficiently to be questioned.
The nerve gas used in Monday's attack, developed by Nazi scientists,
caused passengers to retch, faint and have convulsions. Several hundred
people remained hospitalized in the wake of the attack, 52 of them in
serious or critical condition.
The nerve gas attack has left Japanese shocked by the assault on their
safe, efficient train system and their orderly way of life.
``While it is hard to build a safe society, it is very easy to destroy
it,'' commented the national newspaper Asahi.
Despite the resolve the raids showed, authorities were clearly treating
the sect with kid gloves. During Wednesday's raids, police employed
notable restraint, using no weapons to subdue sect followers who
resisted being led away.
Officials are also being careful to avoid acknowledging that the
investigation of the cult is directly linked to the subway attacks,
although that is widely believed to be the case.
The raids on cult buildings and compounds, meanwhile, are yielding
frightening evidence of the sect's hold over its followers.
At the rural compound near Mount Fuji, police on Wednesday found 50
people who were weak and ill. Six were hospitalized, and press reports
Thursday said they had been drugged.
Police said a 23-year-old female sect member told them she had been
drugged and confined in a container at the compound.
In a chilling development, the sect's leader, Shoko Asahara, was
reported to have delivered an apocalyptic-sounding message to followers
in the Russian Far East.
``The time has come at last for you to awake and help me,'' Asahara
said in the message, broadcast Wednesday night by Japan's NHK
television. ``You must act to ensure you do not have any regrets about
death.''
