Washington, Seoul clash over N. Korean nuke funding
A behind-the-scenes dispute between the United States and South Korea
over who should supply and fund "clean" nuclear technology to North
Korea was made public in parliament on Wednesday.
Opposition legislator Lee Chul accused Washington of pressing Seoul to
shoulder the cost of replacing Pyongyang's graphite-moderated reactors
with light-water systems, which produce less plutonium.
The US government wants Seoul to put up two billion dollars while using
Russian technology instead of South Korean models, Lee told parliament,
quoting documents allegedly obtained from US sources.
Lee said Washington was refusing to let South Korea provide its own
technology, which has been gathered in decades of tie-ups with the US,
Canada and France.
In recent talks in New York, Washington suggested Russia's light-water
reactors be provided to Pyongyang, reportedly arguing that the cost
could be counted as partial repayment of South Korean loans to Moscow.
But Seoul opposed the US proposal, citing potential problems concerning
"safety, technology and sovereignty," Science and Technology Miniser
Kim Si-Joong told parliament.
Kim said US, Japanese and South Korean officials discussed the question
of funding and replacing North Korea's controversial reactors, but no
agreement has been reached.
He confirmed South Korea was ready to provide its nuclear technology to
North Korea, which has agreed to hold the first-ever inter-Korean
summit July 25-27 in Pyongyang.
South Korea has offered North Korea substantial economic benefits in
return for giving up its nuclear weapons program, including a program
to finance the transformation of its nuclear reactors.
Government officials told newspapers here Wednesday Seoul hoped to
supply technology to Pyongyang, but Washington was reluctant because
the South Korean model is based on US technology.
Japan also reportedly reacted unfavorably to the use of South Korean
technology and argued for an international consortium.
Washington recommended the Russian reactor because it is cheaper and
North Korea is more accustomed to Russian technology, guaranteeing
better safety management, the reports said.
But Kim said his government prefers the Korean-style reactors for North
Korea.
"Our government is all prepared over this issue from the approach of
furnishing power to North Korea in economic cooperation," he added,
raising speculation here that the offer was to be included in a package
deal President Kim Young-Sam will take to the summit.
The question of changing North Korean reactors will be high on the
agenda on Friday, when Robert Gallucci, US assistant secretary of
state, sits down for talks with North Korean officials in Genvea.
North Korea conveyed its offer to freeze its controversial nuclear
program through former US president Jimmy Carter in Pyongyang in
mid-June.
Carter said on his return from Pyongyang that the North was interested
in replacing the graphite system with light-water reactors.
The flap over reactor changes comes as South Korea's nuclear industry
is coming of age to seek out overseas markets for its technological
exports.
If North Korea accepts the South Korean offer, it would be South
Korea's first export of nuclear technology, though interest is high in
China.
