Losses, Blow Outs Keep Piling Up For The Winless Clippers
Displaced by construction and still distraught over their playoff
failure, the Seattle SuperSonics won't be disowned up here just yet.
This oft-disjointed team, playing its home games a half-hour out of
town and already having lost one of them to the Sacramento Kings,
avoided the intolerable Sunday evening and pounded the Los Angeles
Clippers.
With their typical rout of L.A., a 115-90 thrashing they built up to in
the second half, the Sonics mollified the 16,352 spectators at the
Tacoma Dome who are used to filling up Seattle Center Coliseum.
That building has been torn down to be rebuilt, and Seattle's on-court
interpretation of a wrecking ball reminded the lowly Clippers (0-5)
they are doing the same.
``That's what happens when you play a championship-caliber team and
you're a young team starting over,'' said Clippers point guard Pooh
Richardson, helpless to stop his new club from nearing the worst start
in franchise history (0-7 by the San Diego Clippers of 1982-83).
``You can hang in for a little while. They can roll out of bed and play
together well.''
The Clippers actually fashioned their second lead of the season on
Terry Dehere's two free throws (32-30) in the second quarter and were
within four points (62-58) with 9:08 remaining in the third. Those were
the team's best moments since Game 2 in Japan, when Dehere's layup gave
the Clippers a 2-0 edge on Portland.
They just couldn't make it last, as usual. Not even 15 seconds after
Tony Massenburg's dunk got the Clippers within four points, Massenburg
and Dehere collided on a rebound and sent the ball out of bounds. Shawn
Kemp hit a jumper to salvage the possession, sparking a Sonics run of
10 straight points to essentially end it.
One mistake is all it takes when you make only 21 of 41 free throws and
get 22 points of bench scoring to Seattle's 45. Dehere (24 points) and
Loy Vaught (23 points, nine rebounds, four blocks) kept it close as
long as they could.
``Right now, we're having a problem putting 48 minutes together,''
Dehere said. ``We're putting in two good quarters, or three good
quarters.''
Clippers coach Bill Fitch said: ``We were able to take the lead there
... and we were playing good. They wear you down.''
The Sonics (3-1) keyed on Vaught after halftime and limited him to two
shots (he made both) after the fifth-year forward had 18 points on
9-of-10 shooting through two quarters. Vaught also got weary dealing
with all the attention, making a team-high five turnovers and forcing
Fitch to send in the young ones. Trouble. Clippers reserves hit 7 of 18
shots and Harold Ellis missed 7 of 10 free throws in 15 minutes.
``They're not ready to play against the veterans yet,'' Fitch said.
``The only way to get them ready is to throw them out there. I wasn't
waving the white flag, but it really caved in after that.''
The bright spot was Vaught, who is starting to adjust to the
small-forward spot, averaging 19.3 points and 9.7 rebounds in the past
three defeats.
``I really like that (position),'' Vaught said. ``... The losing takes
a lot out of you, though. It really does.
``We're going to start winning. This is tough, but it can't go on
forever.''
After getting 20 and 15 points from reserves Vincent Askew and Sarunas
Marciulionis and Kemp's 17 points and 11 rebounds, Seattle coach George
Karl credited the Clippers with doing ``some NBA things.''
That is an improvement -- a big one compared to the 133-105 exhibition
loss the Sonics tagged on the Clippers in Mexico City last month, or
the 150-101 rout at Seattle Coliseum last April.
``They're a young team,'' Karl said. ``They've got a new coach. They'll
figure it out. Winning a game in this league is not easy. I know
everyone thinks it is.''
No, not everyone.
