California Cleans Up From Deadly Storm, Braces for More Rain
Fresh heavy rains caused dozens of road accidents in California
Thursday. Freeways and intersections flooded, and traffic came to a
stop in some parts of the car-dependent state.
``We had an average one-hour delay over the normal morning commute,''
said Officer Tito Gomez of the California Highway Patrol. He said there
were ``many accidents on another rainy morning.''
Skies cleared briefly Wednesday after storms drenched California from
the wine country north of San Francisco to the fire-ravaged hillsides
of Southern California. Some areas got up to 16 inches (40 centimeters)
of rain in the past nine days -- twice the normal total for the entire
season.
At least eight people died in storms that caused millions of dollars in
damage.
Forecasters warn that a weaker storm lurking offshore was poised to
strike this weekend.
Amid the stink of sewage and scrape of bulldozers, Californians used
precious hours of dry weather Wednesday to dig out of the muck left by
storms. In Malibu, tons of dirt fell on the Pacific Coast Highway as
soaked hillsides gave way. Roadways were coated by brown ooze. Beach
homes were sandbagged against the threat of mudslides from hills left
barren by 1993 wildfires.
In Northern California, about 1,500 people driven from their homes
after the Russian and Napa rivers overflowed awaited word on when they
could go back. Others returned home in boats or waded through
waist-deep water to swamped living rooms.
``We lost everything we had,'' said a weeping Rose Draude of Roseville,
20 miles (30 km) northeast of Sacramento. ``All our good furniture.
When we bought this home two years ago, they told us we didn't have to
worry about floods because the creeks were cleared. Now we're starting
all over again.''
In the Southern California tourist mecca of Santa Barbara, the main
street was closed to traffic as workers cleared a foot of mud from the
quaint shopping district. About 28 miles (45 km) of streets were
covered with mud, and 45 mudslides were reported in hills around the
city.
Francisco Moreno, a Spanish teacher at Santa Barbara City College, lost
thousands of books, including rare 12th-century editions, when water
flooded his home.
``Gone. Everything gone,'' he said Wednesday, choking back tears as he
stood on the sidewalk in his bathrobe. ``The water was up to the
ceiling.''
California governor Pete Wilson has declared 34 counties state disaster
areas. President Clinton has declared 24 counties disaster areas,
making residents and businesses there eligible for federal aid.
``With the earthquakes and the fires you have shown that you're a
people who can come together in times of crisis and overcome those
crises,'' Clinton said. ``The American people are with you.''
The state Office of Emergency Services issued a damage assessment of
dlrs 66 million for only 13 counties. In other preliminary estimates,
Sacramento County said it suffered dlrs 50 million in damage to 600
homes and 350 businesses, and Sonoma County damage was put at dlrs 20
million.
The state's two major farming areas, the San Joaquin Valley in central
California and the Imperial Valleys to the south, appear to have
escaped serious damage.
