IMF delegation discusses standby deal with Hungary 
A delegation from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) started
two-week talks here Wednesday on a standby agreement with Hungary,
Finance Ministry officials said.
The agreement would involve two separate loans totalling 800 million
dollars, which Hungary plans to spend on budgetary reform and
structural changes.
The delegation, led by Leslie Lipschitz, is to meet with Finance
Minister Lajos Bokros, head of the central National Bank Gyorgy
Suranyi, Minister of Industry and Trade Imre Dunai and Privatisation
Minister Tamas Suchman.
It is to review an ongoing economic stabilisation programme of
Hungary's social-liberal cabinet, and is to look into a new three-year
plan of economic strategy as well as next year's budget.
Preliminary reports said that the IMF liked Hungary's stabilisation
plan and was satisfied with the country's target for a budget deficit
of 258 billion forints (1.9 billion dollars) next year, which would
make 3.9 percent of the GDP, Finance Ministry officials said.
At earlier talks, the IMF looked at the the deficit remaining at three
percent of the GDP as a precondition to a standby loan, and it also
said it wanted further austerity measures on top of the ones adopted by
the government in March and adopted by Parliament in June.
It also said that it wanted a monetary and wage reform aimed at
strengthening the country's international competitiveness.
The cabinet's three-year plan wants to gradually cut the deficit to
below three percent of ther GDP by 1998, to cut inflation to below 15
percent from the current 25 percent, and to create the conditions for
permanent growth, Deputy State Secretary Tamas Tetenyi of the ministry
said Wednesday.
He said that for growth, Hungary has to keep its current account
deficit below the working capital influx, or below 1.5 billion dollars.
(Last year, the current account deficit almost reached four billion
dollars.)
He added that to achieve that goal, people in Hungary will pay a high
price next year, as real wages will fall and living conditions will
visibly deteriorate.
