Afghan security force deal awaits signature; India-Pakistan standoff hots up
British and Afghan officials Monday were putting the final touches on an
agreement deploying a multinational peacekeeping force in war-ravaged
Afghanistan, while neighboring Pakistan countered accusations of tolerating
terror groups and harboring Osama bin Laden.
The charges against Pakistan came as Islamabad faced off with its South
Asian nuclear rival India, with both sides massing troops along their
common border.
After weeks of haggling, Afghanistan's new government announced Sunday
it had reached broad agreement with the international community on the
deployment of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF)
troops.
In Kabul, British embassy spokesman Paul Sykes said Monday that Afghan
and British officials were combing through the text line-by-line in
order to resolve conflicts in the translated versions which had held up
the official signing.
"The talks will continue in the course of the day. We never set a
timeline for this. We have to get it right," he told AFP.
"There is an English version and a Dari version and you have to make
sure everyone understands what this means," Sykes said.
The talks remained cordial, but the sticking point had been aspects
relating to "military matters" which had different connotations in the
two languages, Sykes told AFP.
Meanwhile a group of British soldiers arrived in Bagram air base early
Monday and was on its way into the capital Kabul, Sykes said. Britain
will supply up to 1,500 soldiers to the 16-nation force, and a small
Royal Marine advance guard is already patrolling Kabul.
The fledgling Afghan government on Sunday overcame a potential hurdle
in its relations with the United States, saying the US bombing campaign
in the central Asian nation should continue until all terror elements
are wiped out there.
The bombing campaign "should continue as long as terrorist cells are in
Afghanistan or (until) the campaign against terror is concluded fully,
with our objectives achieved fully," Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah
told a press conference here.
His remarks came after Bush on Saturday rejected suggestions by the
Afghan defense ministry that the raids end after the fall "in three to
four days" of the last pockets of resistance from members of bin
Laden's al-Qaeda network.
Washington launched a military campaign in Afghanistan on October 7, in
retaliation for the Taliban regime's refusal to hand over bin Laden,
accused of masterminding the September 11 attacks on the United States.
The bombings forced the Islamist militia from power, paving the way for
the creation of a historic power-sharing interim administration
bringing together rival Afghan factions, which took office on December
22.
But the US air bombings have abated in recent days, amid conflicting
reports -- including from within the Afghan government -- about the
whereabouts of bin Laden.
On Sunday defense ministry spokesman Mohammad Habeel insisted for the
third consecutive day that bin Laden was now based in the Pakistani
border town of Peshawar.
Foreign minister Abdullah however said the Saudi-born militant may
still be in Afghanistan.
"He is definitely in Peshawar, under the protection of Fazelur Rahman,"
Habeel said, referring to the head of the hard-line Muslim Jamiat
Ulema-i-Islam party.
Both Jamiat and Pakistani officials have denied the claim, with
Pakistan's foreign minister, Abdul Sattar, telling CNN there was no
indication that bin Laden was on Pakistani soil.
"I would think it very far-fetched speculation that Osama bin Laden had
escaped this dragnet and somehow or other found a way to enter
Pakistan," said Sattar.
Sattar said bin Laden would be handed over to the US-led coalition if
captured.
But Qanooni added his voice to the accusations against Pakistan,
pointing the finger at Islamabad's powerful Inter-Services Intelligence
(ISI).
"Undoubtedly they knew what was going on," he told Iranian television.
"The fact that there has not been any reaction and that (bin Laden) has
not been arrested indicates that he is somehow being supported by the
Pakistani ISI."
Officials in the interim government in Kabul, especially those from the
Northern Alliance that battled the Taliban, have little patience for
Pakistan, which for years backed the ousted regime.
Meanwhile, officials in Islamabad -- under mounting worldwide pressure
over allegations of tolerating terror groups -- and their counterparts
in New Delhi spoke of reaching peace, but prepared for all-out
conflict.
The latest row between India and Pakistan -- who have fought three
times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947, twice over the
disputed Kashmir border region -- came after Muslim extremists launched
a deadly attack on the Indian parliament December 13.
India accused Pakistan's ISI of being behind the assault, which it said
was carried out by Pakistani Muslim extremists battling for control of
Kashmir.
As the two countries massed troops along their common border, US
President George W. Bush urged them to avoid armed conflict.
Britain, the former colonial ruler in the region, on Sunday also
appealed for both countries to deflate the escalating military
standoff.
"It is obviously in no-one's interests for tensions to mount as they
are doing," a government spokesman said in London. "We obviously are
concerned about the deterioration in relations and are urging restraint
on all sides."
Islamabad has arrested 50 militants, including the founder of the
Jaish-e-Mohammad group, Maulana Masood Azhar, and the leader of the
Lashkar-e-Taiba organization, Hafiz Mohammed Saeed.
India however dismissed the moves as merely "cosmetic."
In the United States, the New York Times reported Monday that al-Qaeda
members contacted Iranian intelligence agents in the mid-1990s seeking
to forge an anti-US alliance.
Citing still-classified US intelligence reports, the newspaper reported
that a bin Laden ally sought out Iranian intelligence officers in
Afghanistan in 1996, in the hope that Tehran would join forces to
strike American targets.
Iranian intelligence agents reportedly responded that they were willing
to meet personally with bin Laden in Afghanistan, but the daily said it
was unclear whether such a meeting ever occurred.
And on Sunday the Pentagon announced that the US Army's 101st Airborne
Division will relieve the US Marines at Kandahar airport, but did not
say when the changeover would occur, citing security concerns.
The troops, who will be sent from Fort Campbell, Kentucky, will secure
the airport, and Taliban and al-Qaida detainees and also conduct
warfare operations such as coordinating US air strikes and tracking
down Osama bin Laden's terrorist network.
