Killer of US citizen among 13 Palestinian deportees in Cyprus: Israel
The alleged killer of a US citizen is among the 13 Palestinian
militants deported from Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity, who are in
Cyprus pending an EU decision on their final destination, an Israeli
official said Wednesday.
"There is one of them who killed an American citizen. We made this
point when we visited Washington earlier this month," Raanan Gissin,
spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, told AFP.
He did not identify the militant.
A US official said the Justice Department was investigating whether one
of the Palestinians, deported under an internationally brokered deal to
end the church siege, killed Avi Boaz on January 15 in Bethlehem.
Boaz, 71, emigrated from the United States in 1963 and held joint
US-Israeli citizenship.
He lived in the West Bank settlement of Maale Aduumim and used his US
passport to enter Bethelehem, a Palestinian self-rule town, to buy
building material for a home he was building in a nearby settlement
Israel police said he was abducted at gunpoint from a Palestinian
Authority checkpoint in Beit Jala, on the north western edge of
Bethlehem, under the noses of Palestinian police.
He was driven to Beit Sahur, on the eastern side of the town, where his
bullet-riddled body was later found in his car.
The Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, an armed offshoot of Palestinian leader
Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement, claimed responsibility for the killing
of Boaz, whom it accused of being an "Israeli intelligence officer."
Palestinian police arrested Jihad Jaara, a local leader of the Al Aqsa
Martyrs Brigades, in connection with the killing, but he was soon
released amid fears that Israel could bomb the prison he was being held
in.
Jaara and several other members of the group, including its Bethlehem
leader, Ibrahim Abayat, were exiled under a deal to break the five-week
Israeli siege of the Church of the Nativity.
A US official in Israel said no charges were yet filed against any of
the deported militants.
He said if the Justice Department decided to file charges, then
Washington would file for extradition from whichever country the
militant ended up in.
