Malaysia's economy to expand by 7.8-to-8.2 percent: central bank
Malaysia's powering economy is forecast to grow 7.8-to-8.2 percent this
year as the government grapples with inflationary pressures, the
central bank said Friday.
After posting growth of 8.2 percent in 1996, Malaysia's focus in its
10th boom year would be on channelling bank lending to more productive
sectors and strengthening financial infrastructure, Bank Negara said.
The current account deficit narrowed to 13 billion ringgit (5.2 billion
dollars) last year but was expected to rise to 14.8 billion ringgit in
1997 as higher investment activity forced up imports, the bank's 1996
annual report said.
The deficit included remittances by an estimated two million foreign
workers in the labour-starved country of 22 million people.
"The prospects for 1997 remain favourable. However, the persistence of
several potential sources of inflationary pressures would call for
continued caution," Bank Negara's governor Ahmad Mohamad Don said in
the report.
"Higher domestic demand, continuing wage pressures in a tight labour
market, strong food prices and prevailing cost pressures" are expected
this year, Ahmad said.
He said the central bank's monetary policy will remain "one of
restraint, with the focus on the management of liquidity to contain
excess demand and inflationary pressures," but tailored to changing
circumstances.
Consumer price inflation is projected to rise to 3.7 percent this year
from 3.5 percent in 1996.
Bank Negara's growth forecast took into account "downside
uncertainties" including the strength and speed of the recovery in the
global electronics industry and the ability of exporters to maintain
competitiveness in export markets for electrical products.
The bank said it was insulating the economy to deal with potential
risks that may derail growth and to reduce vulnerability to external
factors.
Analysts said the growth range was within expectations but could
indicate that Bank Negara may introduce tightening measures for part of
the property sector.
Bank Negara singled out asset price inflation as a major worry,
attributing it to "rising income, the wealth effect of a buoyant stock
market and excessive loan exposure to the property sector and lending
for speculative activities."
It warned that "sectoral policies" may be implemented to curb
over-exposure in bank lending towards the property and stock markets if
a tight monetary policy alone was insufficient to curb credit for such
activities.
Banking loans rose 27.6 percent to 319 billion ringgit last year. A
considerable portion of it went to the broad property sector,
consumption, investment, and shares.
The bank said the interest rate differential in relation to the United
States was not likely to widen.
This indicated that domestic interest rates were likely to remain firm
for the rest of the year in line with the upward trend in the US cycle,
economists said.
Bank Negara's reserves at the end of 1996 were up 6.2 billion ringgit
to 87.86 billion ringgit, sufficient to finance about four months of
retained imports.
