Egyptian FM on Mubarak-Arafat Talks in Cairo 
President Hosni Mubarak and PLO leader Yasser Arafat discussed here
today on the Middle East peace process, particularly the implementation
of the PLO-Israeli accord on expanding Palestinian self-rule in the
West Bank, said Foreign Minister Amr Moussa.
Moussa told reporters after the talks that the two leaders also
discussed preparations for the coming Palestinian elections scheduled
for January 20.
A total of 20 Egyptian observers will take part in monitoring the
elections held for choosing a 82-member council that will govern the
Palestinian autonomy, according to Moussa.
During their talks, Moussa said, Arafat briefed Mubarak on his Gulf
tour which took his to Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
Egypt, the first Arab country to made peace with Israel, has long been
a chief mediator in negotiations between the Palestinians and the
Jewish state.
Moussa, hailing the progress achieved on the Palestinian track of the
peace process, said there will still be crucial talks between the
Palestinians and Israel, referring to the final-stage talks between the
two sides, due to start in May next year.
On the Syrian-Israeli peace negotiations, which will resume on December
27, the foreign minister expressed his optimism saying that there is
some progress in the Israeli stands with new ideas.
He also called for the activation of the Lebanese track of the regional
peace process.
Meanwhile, the four-day reconciliation talks between the Palestinian
National Authority (PNA) and the Islamic Resistance Movement, or Hamas,
ended here today without substantial results.
Hamas, the Palestinian radical group which opposes the PLO-Israeli
peace process, said it would boycott the Palestinian elections. It also
failed to pledge an end to its attacks against Israelis during the
talks.
Arafat, who arrived here earlier today following a trip to the Arab
Gulf states and stayed here for a few hours before leaving, did not
meet with Hamas negotiators as expected, due to "lack of time," Egypt's
official Middle East News Agency said.
