Economist Warns: Palestinian Authority Can't Pay Police Salaries 
The Palestinian Authority will not be able to pay the salaries of
policemen and other employees next month without assistance from
outside, a senior Palestinian economist warned Thursday.
``We are in a deep crisis and an embarrassing situation,'' said
Muhammed Ishtieh, a leading economist who handles funding from donor
countries which pledged money to Israel.
Salaries for the more than 17,000 policemen in the Gaza Strip cost the
Palestinian Authority some dlrs four million per month.
To date, donor countries have been funding the running costs of the PLO
government, established in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho
last May under the self-rule accord with Israel. That funding is
scheduled to stop this month.
Palestinian officials have asked that donor countries continue to
supply funding for running the fledgeling government. British Prime
Minister John Major, who visited the Gaza Strip last week, said running
costs were viewed by the European Union as a ``partnership'' and
indicated he was not ruling it out.
``It was very optimistic calculations that Palestinians by the end of
April will be able to collect revenues to cover their expenses,'' said
Dr. Samir Abdullah from the Palestinian Economic Council for
Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR), which oversees donor funding.
Donor countries, including the United States and European countries,
pledged dlrs 2.4 billions to the Palestinian Authority for the first
five years, promising dlrs 700,000 in the first year. But the
Palestinian Authority only received dlrs 250 million this year after
the authority's leader, PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat, failed to set up an
accounting system for the funds.
The projected budget for 1995 is dlrs 750 million, Istieh, a policy
planner at PECDAR said.
The Palestinian economy also lost vital income when Israel sealed its
borders to Palestinians, effectively barring some 120,000 Palestinian
workers in the Gaza Strip from reaching their workplaces in Israel,
said Ishtieh.
Ishtieh assessed the Palestinian Authority was losing dlrs 400 million
per year in revenue from the closure.
He said the closure, which was imposed after the Jan. 22 suicide
bombing by Islamic militants killed 21 Israelis, had also hindered
trade between the Palestinians and its neighbors.
For example, he said, the monthly costs for running the five spheres of
authority Israel already transferred to the Palestinians -- health,
education, agriculture, taxation and tourism -- cost dlrs 28 million.
The revenues for this have only reached dlrs 15 million, he said.
``Where can we get the difference?'' Ishtieh asked. ``We will explain
this to the donors countries during next month's meeting in
Washington.''
