Albania's Democrats face challenge from ex-communists
Despite some grumbling at his strong-arm tactics, Albanian President
Sali Berisha seems likely to fend off a challenge from ex-communists in
general elections Sunday and pursue a strongly pro-western foreign
policy and a continued drive to privatize the economy.
Still, the ruling Democratic Party's chances of repeating its sweeping
victory of 1992, when it received 65 percent of the vote, appear slim.
The latest opinion polls indicate 40 percent of the two million voters
plan to back Democrats while 19 percent intend to vote for socialist
candidates.
The elections will be the third since the collapse of the dictatorship
founded by Enver Hoxha after World War II. Communists won the first
vote in 1991, but widespread riots and instability forced them to hold
an early election the following year.
The Democrats inherited a country whose economy had virtually
collapsed. A large part of the budget came from foreign aid, the
deficit was 47 percent of GNP, inflation raged at 400 percent a year
and 70 percent of the labor force was not working.
Since then, Berisha has stabilized the currency, the lek; reduced
inflation to six percent; cut the deficit to six percent and attracted
2.5 billion dollars in foreign investments, mostly in the oil, tourism
and food industries.
In a country where only a few years ago it was illegal to own a car, 90
percent of commerce is in private hands, as is 70 of the transportation
system.
In his vigorous campaign, Berisha has promised to completely privatise
banks, mines and telecommunications and vowed to cut taxes, improve
housing and create jobs.
"The Democratic Party has taken a historic gamble with its economic
policy, which will allow Albania to make up for lost time and become a
developed country," he told AFP in an interview.
Even his opponents concede that the days of communism are gone forever.
"Albania has laid the foundation for a market eonomy and a return to
the past is impossible," admitted Shkelqim Cani, a former prime
minister and member of the Socialist Party board.
"But the cost of reform has been too high for a good part of the
population," he said.
The Socialist leader, Gramoz Ruci, who was interior minister in the
last communist government, said his party could garner half the votes
and, allied with smaller left-wing opposition parties, could enjoy a
two-thirds majority in parliament.
Berisha has not hesitated to use strong-arm tactics to weaken the
opposition -- such as having a state commission bar 40 Socialists,
including Ruci, after finding them guilty of "complicity" with the
communist government.
Television coverage of the campaign has been strongly slanted against
the Socialists, observers say.
Such moves have given weight to opposition allegations that Berisha's
government is dictatorial and corrupt and has tarnished its image among
Albanians.
The country, despite its progress, is still Europe's poorest and
industry is only functioning at 10 percent of capacity.
Albania has one the most pro-American governments in Europe, and US
Defense Secretary William Perry has visited twice in two years. It was
admitted last year to the Council of Europe.
Tensions with Athens over the Greek ethnic minority in southern Albania
have been smoothed over with the signing of a friendship and
cooperation treaty in March. Ties with Macedonia are good too, despite
the presence of an Albanian minority there.
However, relations with Serbia remain uneasy because of the tense
situation in the formerly autonomous region of Kosovo, where ethnic
Albanians who form 90 percent of the population are now ruled directly
from Belgrade.
