This Time, Japan's Not Rolling Out Red Carpet for Diana 
When Princess Diana paid her first visit to Japan, the heir to the
British throne was at her side and adoring crowds materialized wherever
she went.
This time around, it's a different story.
When Diana arrives Monday for a four-day visit, her estranged husband,
Prince Charles, won't be accompanying her. The schedule hasn't been
finalized, but as of Thursday, there were no plans for meetings with
top government officials or members of the royal family.
Japan's Foreign Ministry describes the visit as unofficial, and because
Diana is not a state guest, the lack of such meetings is not
necessarily a protocol breach.
But the princess' luster may have dimmed a bit. In conservative Japan,
many view the huge scandal surrounding the breakdown of Charles and
Diana's marriage with distaste. The imperial family here is treated
with deep respect, and its members behave with near-total decorum.
By British standards, royal scandal in Japan tends to be pretty tame
stuff -- such as tabloid reports that Empress Michiko sometimes
inconvenienced her staff by asking for noodles late at night, or
speculation about whether Crown Princess Masako is pregnant.
Considering that Japan less than three weeks ago experienced its worst
natural disaster in more than 70 years -- an earthquake that killed
more than 5,100 people -- attentions are understandably focused
elsewhere, and there's been little flurry of anticipation over the
visit.
But one magazine trumpeted rumors that the government and royal family
are keeping Diana at arm's length because of her marital woes.
``When you think about it, it might be easiest for her to visit quietly
and leave without going to the palace only to hear `How's Prince
Charles?' or `Give him our best wishes,' said a recent article in
Shukan Shincho, a popular weekly magazine. ``That would be easiest for
those receiving her as well.''
Buckingham Palace has called this a ``working visit,'' and so far the
schedule calls for events like hospital calls and embassy functions.
The schedule, as of Thursday, did not include a trip to
earthquake-ravaged Kobe, a stop Diana had reportedly said she would
like to make.
Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko visited the city Tuesday. Officials
on both sides refused to comment on why Diana isn't scheduled to go to
the quake zone.
Meanwhile, officials at Japan's Imperial Household Agency, which
manages palace affairs, said as of Thursday there were no plans for
Diana to meet with her counterpart, Masako, or any other members of the
imperial family.
British Embassy spokesman Satomi Shinjo, asked whether it was unusual
for no palace tete-a-tete to be planned for visiting royalty, had no
comment.
``All I can say is that at this time nothing is on the schedule,'' she
said.
Foreign Ministry officials said Diana's itinerary was still being
discussed, and meetings with the government or royalty could still be
added.
It's a far cry from Diana's 1986 visit, when nearly 100,000 people
lined the streets of Tokyo to catch a glimpse of her. She and Prince
Charles dined with the late Emperor Hirohito, were toasted by Prime
Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and given live, nationwide TV airtime.
Diana and Charles returned in 1990 for Emperor Akihito's enthronement
ceremony, and were the most popular of the dignitaries that came from
nearly 160 countries.
