With BC-Palestinian-Israel Dozens Of Palestinian Fugitives Eager To Sneak
Into Gaza
At least 120 men wanted by Israel for attacks during the Palestinian
uprising are waiting to sneak into the Gaza Strip from Egypt after
failing to secure permits to return to the self-rule strip.
Palestinian sources disclosed the situation of the men Wednesday after
Israeli troops shot and killed two members of PLO chief Yasser Arafat's
elite Force 17 guards and a Palestinian fugitive near the crossing from
Egypt.
Most of those hoping to sneak into Gaza were members of the Fatah
Hawks, a youth gang attached to Arafat's mainstream Palestine
Liberation Organization faction that was active during the
``intefadeh,'' or uprising, said the sources, who insisted on
anonymity.
The sources said since Arafat moved to Gaza in July last year to take
control of the autonomous Palestinian Authority, about 16 fugitives
have made their way into the strip despite tight Israeli border
security. Some did it in a daring journey in small boats on the
Mediterranean Sea.
Most of the fugitives are wanted for killing Israeli soldiers or
Palestinian collaborators. They escaped from Gaza during the seven-year
rebellion that ended with Arafat's signing of a peace accord with
Israel in 1993, the sources said.
They said the men are now in Libya, Sudan and Algeria and have not been
paid for months.
The fugitives are understood to cross the border from Libya and then
sneak through the Egypt's western desert and the Sinai peninsula into
Gaza.
Egypt, unwilling to see the Palestinians using its territories to
infiltrate, has detained some of them and has asked the PLO to help
stop the influx, the sources said.
Under the accord Israel remains in control of the border crossing into
Gaza and a second autonomous area, the West Bank town of Jericho.
Israel has allowed thousands of former PLO guerrillas to return, mostly
as police and security men with Arafat's autonomy administration. Some
Fatah Hawks leaders also were permitted to return.
But several requests to grant permission for the rest of the Hawks have
been turned down by Israel, the sources said.
The PLO officials insisted the fugitives, feeling abandoned and
penniless, were making the risky trip on their own. But other sources
contacted by The Associated Press said a Gaza-based Palestinian network
was helping in the operation. SN-GGL
