Japan trust banks under pressure from debt problems: Moody's 
Japanese trust banks are under pressure from bad debt and the erosion
of their wholesale banking franchise, creating concerns about credit
quality, Moody's Investors Service Inc. said Tuesday.
The New York-based credit rating agency was referring to Japan's seven
trust banks and Daiwa Bank Ltd., which engages in commercial and trust
banking activity.
Moody's said the financial strength ratings were at the low end of the
scale, but excluded Nippon Trust Bank Ltd., which had an "E-plus"
rating, because of explicit support from parent Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd.
Daiwa Bank, Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp. Ltd., Sumitomo Trust and
Banking Co. Ltd., and Toyo Trust and Banking Co. Ltd. have financial
strength ratings of "D".
Mitsui Trust and Banking Corp. is rated "E-plus," while Chuo Trust and
Banking Co. Ltd. and Yasuda Trust and Banking Co. Ltd. are rated "E".
"We expect those banks with very weak financial fundamentals (i.e.,
those rated 'E-plus' or 'E') will ultimately require assistance either
from the authorities or their respective keiretsu (corporate group)
members," Moody's said in a special report.
It said the trust banks' "weak financial fundamentals will likely
continue through this century."
Moody's said it remains "confident in the Japanese authorities'
commitment to protect depositors of the 20 major Japanese banks,
including the seven rated trust banks."
Moody's noted the banks wrote off significant bad debt in the year to
March 1996 in addressing their exposure to failed housing loan
companies, or jusen, and other problem assets.
But it said "nonperforming loans continue to remain on the trust banks'
balance sheets, and trust sales of real estate collateral continue to
be difficult and time consuming."
The finance ministry has reported that the seven trust banks held 6,015
billion yen worth bad loans at the end of March.
Moody's said the trust banks were experiencing substantial pressure on
their capital and the true magnitude of the problem was yet to be
reflected in official statistics on nonperforming loans.
The banks were also facing growing competitive pressure from city banks
and securities companies as they enter the trust banking market.
Moody's said the trust banks continued to depend on the wholesale
lending market, but the favourable impact of low interest rates will
disappear, while opportunities for lending growth are limited due to
the depressed real estate market.
