Olympic Panel Considering New Hockey Arena 
The Salt Lake City Olympic Organizing Committee will decide by next
Wednesday whether to participate in a hockey arena proposed by
neighboring West Valley City, committee spokesman Mike Korologos said.
The committee is being asked to contribute dlrs 7 million toward the
10,000-seat arena, which would become the home of the Grizzlies of the
International Hockey League and would be used for hockey and
short-track speed skating in the 2002 Winter Games.
Before the proposal was made, the committee had been planning on
spending about dlrs 17 million for an 8,000-seat arena at a site that
was to be selected this fall.
The Salt Lake City Council is crying foul and wants the committee to
put off its decision on where to build an ice arena for at least three
months.
In a letter sent Wednesday to the committee, the council said it was
promised more time to prepare a proposal.
``The concern we have is we need to follow the process that was
promised us,'' councilman Tom Godfrey said. ``This is the first issue
that has come down the pike since we got the bid. If this is how they
keep promises, we're going to have some real questions about any other
deals with the Olympic Committee.''
``A curveball in the form of a Grizzly'' is forcing expedited
consideration, Korologos said.
David Elmore is seeking a new home for his Denver Grizzlies because the
Quebec Nordiques of the NHL are moving to Colorado. Elmore must tell
the IHL next week where he is moving.
``A dlrs 10 million savings gets your attention and so does 2,000 more
seats,'' Korologos said. ``But that does not guarantee our
acceptance.''
``We got the West Valley proposal on July 7. We passed the information
on to (Salt Lake) Mayor (Deedee) Corradini, explaining the West
Valley-Grizzlies deadline of July 19,'' he said. ``We also told Salt
Lake City we needed a response, either a proposal or comments, by July
17. That will give us two days to respond to West Valley and the
Grizzlies.''
Elmore said his ``95 percent feeling'' that the Grizzlies would move to
Utah has dwindled to 50-50. ``If SLOOC stalls the vote one way or the
other, they have effectively killed any chance,'' he said.
Elmore has explored San Diego and San Antonio as other possible homes
for the Grizzlies.
The Salt Lake Council's proposal includes two options: Build both an
ice sheet near the Steiner Aquatic Center at the University of Utah and
an ice arena with up to 8,500 seats at the Utah State Fairpark or build
a combination sheet-arena at one of those locations, most likely the
fairpark.
Elmore suggested perhaps the Olympics committee could use some of the
money saved by the West Valley venture and put a practice sheet at the
university.
``But how many ice sheets do we need?'' Korologos said. ``We would be
going from a town with no rinks to a place with more rinks than you can
shake a hockey stick at. We would have more ice sheets than fast-food
places.''
