Hometown Baffled by Arrest of Bombing Suspect 
Pat Waugh recalls Timothy McVeigh as an outgoing boy who hustled
neighborhood kids with his own gambling casino when he was 10.
Seventeen years later, McVeigh is a suspect in the bombing of a federal
office building in Oklahoma City that killed at least 78 people.
A flamboyant boy, McVeigh was always on the make, setting up roulette
wheels in his front yard or Halloween haunted houses in his basement to
earn money, Waugh said. Her children used to come home to bum spare
change so they could pay for McVeigh's little schemes, she said.
``I used to think to myself, that kid is going to go somewhere just
because he's such a mover and shaker,'' Waugh said Friday at a tavern
in Pendleton, just north of Buffalo, where McVeigh grew up.
At bars, shops and street corners throughout this rural town, residents
gathered Friday and tried to recall anything about McVeigh's youth that
could shed light on his alleged involvement in the bombing. Most of
their efforts were in vain.
In court papers, the FBI said McVeigh, 26, was angry over federal
agents' conduct in the 1993 assault on the Branch Davidian cult in
Waco, Texas, and carried out the bombing in retaliation.
Those who knew McVeigh in his hometown remembered an average, affable
boy who kept to himself as he entered his teens and rarely came home
after graduating from high school in 1986.
After hearing he was accused in the bombing, ``I was thinking, what
happened to him between then and now? It must have been a lot,'' said
Wendy Stephany, a classmate of McVeigh at Starpoint High School.
When McVeigh was about 10, his mother left her husband for another man
and moved to Florida, taking the boy's younger sister with her, Waugh
said. His father, William McVeigh, moved with his son and oldest
daughter to a smaller house nearby.
FBI agents raided the father's house Friday afternoon looking for
evidence and took a man believed to be William McVeigh for questioning.
Agents declined to comment and left the house under guard by state
police.
McVeigh did a stint in the military and worked briefly as a security
guard in a Buffalo suburb in the early 1990s.
Pendleton residents said they would have no sympathy for McVeigh if he
is found guilty of the bombing.
``If he is responsible for all them kids that died, they should torture
him,'' said Tim Kranz, who graduated three years after McVeigh. ``I
wouldn't want him to get the electric chair and die quickly.''
