Red Wings, Blackhawks Take 3-0 Leads
Vyacheslav Kozlov scored twice as the Detroit Red Wings continued their
thrashing of the San Jose Sharks with a 6-2 victory Thursday night to
take a 3-0 lead in their National Hockey League Western Conference
semifinal series.
The Red Wings, who have outscored the Sharks 18-4 in the series, can
wrap up a spot in the conference finals by winning Game 4 Saturday in
San Jose.
Similarly, Chicago took a 3-0 lead over the Vancouver Canucks in their
semifinal series, winning 3-2 in overtime.
In San Jose, California, Detroit outshot the Sharks 36-12. Two of the
Sharks' shots were soft clearing passes from their own end, meaning San
Jose got only 10 shots from Detroit's half of the ice. The Sharks got
just one shot on six power plays.
The Red Wings, who also got goals from Ray Sheppard, Sergei Fedorov,
Dino Ciccarelli and Darren McCarty, have outshot the Sharks 115-44 in
the series.
Both San Jose goals came in the final 11 minutes. Ray Whitney ended
Mike Vernon's bid for his second shutout of the series on a 15-foot
shot from in front with 10:57 left, and Sergei Makarov scored on a
backhander with 8:16 left.
The Red Wings, who had the best regular-season record in the NHL this
year, are motivated by revenge and history in this series.
Detroit, which was upset by San Jose in the first round of the playoffs
last season, has not won the Stanley Cup in 40 years and has not even
reached the finals since 1966. Blackhawks 3, Canucks 2, OT
In Vancouver, British Columbia, Chris Chelios scored 6:22 into overtime
to give Chicago the victory. The Blackhawks can wrap up the series with
a victory in Game 4 on Saturday at the Pacific Coliseum.
Chelios, who had turned the puck over on Russ Courtnall's second goal
for Vancouver in the third period, worked his way around goaltender
Kirk McLean on a two-on-one rush following a series of scoring chances
for both teams.
Chicago forced overtime when Murray Craven scored with 45 seconds left
in the third period on a passout from Jeremy Roenick.
Courtnall scored the first of his two goals in a shorthanded situation
with 1:44 left in the first period to give Vancouver a 1-0 lead. The
Blackhawks tied it 15 seconds later on a power-play goal by Patrick
Poulin.
Courtnall scored at 12:34 of the third to give the Canucks a 2-1 lead
before Craven scored his tying goal.
In the overtime period, Chicago goaltender Ed Belfour stopped Courtnall
on another breakaway after McLean had stopped Tony Amonte.
Joe Murphy of the Blackhawks hit the post moments before the winner.
