It doesn't make it a cinch that catchers and pitchers will report for
early spring training workouts in February. And it doesn't guarantee
that the long silence in major-league parks will be broken by cries of,
``Play ball!'' in April. Still, the owners' decision to drop their
demand for a salary cap presents an opening for ending the baseball
strike.
Five months ago, when they made their proposal to limit the payrolls of
all teams, the owners knew it would provoke a strike by the players.
They stood by the salary-caps proposal when the players walked out.
They stood by it through the 97-day strike that wiped out the World
Series for the first time since 1904.
Now they have decided to make their first alternative offer to the
players: taxes on payrolls and revenues to provide a pool of money to
share with the small- market teams whose dire financial straits (by the
owners' accounting) make salary controls necessary. Ironically, the
players presented such a proposal three weeks into the strike, only to
have it rejected by the owners as insignificant.
So why the offer now? Much of the credit must go to former U.S. Labor
Secretary W.J. Usery Jr., called in by President Clinton to mediate the
dispute. Usery has managed to get the owners and players to sit down
and seriously talk to each other instead of communicating in barbs and
bombs thrown through the media.
Before pats on the back are extended to the principals in this labor
fight, however, the two sides must show that they can use the proposal
the owners are set to put on the table Thursday as the foundation for a
solution.
It is possible that the owners can design a taxation plan so onerous
that the effect would be the same as a salary cap. It also is possible
that the players' union could be so set against any kind of salary
controls that they would reject a reasonable taxation plan.
What the owners and players should realize is that they have yet
another opportunity to compromise. They should do so out of
consideration not just for themselves, but for the fans, too. The
longer they take to bring the game back to the people who love and miss
it, the less those people will love and miss it.
