Kozyrev arrives in China 
Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev arrived here Wednesday for a
brief visit, likely to centre on border disputes and a possible visit
to Moscow later this year by Prmie Minister Li Peng.
Kozyrev, who leaves Beijing Thursday for Japan, was scheduled to hold
talks later in the afternoon with his Chinese counterpart Qian Qichen.
Although Moscow has played down the importance of the visit, labelling
it a "continuation of Russian diplomacy in the east," Kozyrev's talks
with Chinese leaders are sure to touch on a long-running border dispute
and a 1991 agreement to adjust the frontier.
There have been periodic clashes along the border between the two
countries, and a Sino-Russian border commission is now at work to
adjust the frontier under the terms of an agreement signed in 1991.
This could involve handing over some land to the Chinese, an issue
which is highly controversial in Russia's far east.
The 1991 agreement was part of an attempt to settle a dispute over the
eastern part of the two nations' border, along the Amur river.
China shares more than 4,000 kilometres (2,500 miles) of frontier with
Russia. It contests a demarcation established in 1860, which put
several small islands in the Amur river under Russian control.
A Russian foreign ministry official said this month that border
differences between Moscow and Beijing had been ironed out and that
Russia intended to stick to the letter of the 1991 agreement.
On another strategic issue, the reported sale of three Russia
Kilo-class attack submarines to China, the two sides see eye to eye.
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Panov insisted Tuesday that
military-technical cooperation between Russia and China was no threat
to Asian stability.
Quoted by the news agency ITAR-TASS, he said that "no apprehensions
have been voiced in the area in question." Referring to US unease at
the submarine sale, he added that Washington had also shown
"understanding."
Kozyrev, who will meet with Premier Li and President Jiang Zemin on
Thursday, is also expected to discuss the possibility of a visit by Li
to Moscow later this year.
Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomydin visited China in May 1994.
That trip was seen as the culmination of a series of diplomatic
exchanges aimed at furthering a process of detente begun in 1989, when
former Russian president Mikhail Gorbachev's visit ended a three-decade
ideological rift between China and the former Soviet Union.
