U.S.-Japan Row Overshadows Summit
The United States and Japan stubbornly refused to reopen negotiations
to head off their looming trade war Tuesday as ministers from other
industrialized nations criticized the collision course between
Washington and Tokyo.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Ron Brown said there would be no movement
toward a settlement on the sidelines of the annual two-day ministerial
gathering of the 25-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.
``Those who predicted a breakthrough at the OECD meeting were
mistaken,'' Brown said in a conference telephone call with journalists
in Washington.
``Sometimes in difficult situations, humans resort to pre-historic
behavior,'' said German Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt, beating his
chest at a news conference in reference to the get-tough approach of
both Washington and Tokyo.
OECD ministers discussed how to translate economic recovery into
boosting jobs. Economic growth is projected at 2.7 percent this year.
Unemployment is forecast to total 7.8 percent, down from last year's
record of 8 percent, according to OECD figures.
``Economic growth alone is not enough to address the issue of
unemployment which is one of the key concerns facing the world today,''
said Spanish Finance Minister Pedro Solbes, president of the meeting.
The concerns will be reflected in Wednesday's final communique.
Ministers also agreed to start work on a new accord breaking down
barriers to foreign investment within the OECD, which includes North
America, Western Europe, Japan, Mexico and Australia.
Although it wasn't raised on the official agenda, the threat of U.S.
sanctions against dlrs 6 billion of luxury Japanese automobiles was
ever-present.
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor ``exchanged pleasantries'' in
the corridor with Japanese counterpart Ryutaro Hashimoto, a U.S.
spokeswoman said. But officials stressed there were no plans for any
formal meetings in Paris.
In an interview on European Business News television, Brown reiterated
that the ``ball is in Japan's court.''
Sticking to the same old tennis metaphors that are characterizing the
war of words, Japanese officials retorted that the ball was in the U.S.
court as the first shot had been out of bounds. Hashimoto even mimed
tennis footwork for the TV cameras.
Summing up the bemused attitude of most outsiders, Britain's Trade
Minister Ian Taylor told journalists he hoped by the end of the meeting
``a lot of cold towels will have been wrapped around hot heads.''
The United States has said it will file a counter-suit about Japanese
market restrictions.
Like Washington, many European countries maintain Japan should do more
to open up to foreign suppliers.
``In principle we support the U.S. position because we think Japan has
to behave like a normal player in the world economy,' Germany's Rexrodt
said.
However, Rexrodt and other officials said unilateral sanctions was the
wrong way to achieve this.
``I don't favor the use of threats and the implementation of threats
which are contrary to world trade rules,'' the European Union's top
trade executive Sir Leon Brittan said.
Brittan said if the Americans did manage to settle the dispute with the
Japanese, the EU would want to ensure that any benefits were extended
to other countries.
``We fear that what is done under U.S. pressure would be for the
benefit of the Americans and not for the Europeans,'' he added. `We
would wish to guard against this in advance.''
