Lara a Confirmed Starter for First Test 
West Indies star batsman Brian Lara passed a fitness test Thursday,
guaranteeing he would play in the opening cricket Test match against
Australia starting Friday.
The 25-year-old Lara, who holds the world record Test and first-class
scores, has been nursing an injured hip since he missed the last of
five one-day international matches against Australia on March 18.
On Thursday, Lara practiced with no obvious discomfort.
``Brian came through the session quite well and we are confident he is
fit enough to take his place in the team,'' manager Andy Roberts said.
Lara cut short a batting practice session Wednesday when, according to
Roberts, he ``felt a little discomfort after playing a particular
shot.''
Lara's presence in the West Indies team is a big confidence-booster as
he is widely regarded as the best batsman in the game and hit the only
hundred in the recent one-day internationals -- 139 in the third match
at the Queen's Park Oval in his native Trinidad and Tobago.
West Indies captain Richie Richardson, who had to miss the last four
one-day internationals after straining ligaments in his right shoulder
in the opening match March 8, came through both practice sessions with
no ill effects.
It will be Richardson's first Test since he led the West Indies against
England in Barbados last April. In July, doctors diagnosed him as
suffering from acute fatigue syndrome and advised him to take a
six-month break from the game. In the interim, he missed Test series
against India in India and against New Zealand in New Zealand.
The West Indies has not lost a Test series since it was beaten 1-0 by
New Zealand in New Zealand in 1980. It hasn't been beaten at home in
the Caribbean since it lost to Australia 2-0 in 1973.
The West Indies' emphatic 4-1 triumph in the one-day international
series; the ankle injury that has put Australia's leading fast bowler,
Craig McDermott, out of the series; and the indifferent form of key
Australian leg-spinner Shane Warne have further increased the West
Indies' chances.
But Richardson warned against complacency.
``I'm very happy with that result but we're not going to relax and
believe that because we've won that series so easily it's going to be
the same with the Test matches,'' he said.
``They seem a little bit tired,'' Richardson added. ``They've been
playing a lot of cricket but I'm sure that when the Tests start,
they're going to be rejuvenated and more motivated.''
The Australians completed a 3-1 victory over England in the Test series
in Australia that ended in early February and are generally rated as
the strongest challengers to the West Indies in cricket.
Australia's captain, Mark Taylor, said his team's morale was good in
spite of the defeat in the one-day series and the loss of McDermott.
``We are at the point where things are happening,'' Taylor said. ``Our
players are fit, all the batsmen, except myself, have had a good
workout coming into the Test and we are ready to switch on.''
Barbados Cricket Association secretary Basil Matthews said a sellout
crowd of 14,000 was expected for the first three days -- including
about 700 Australian tourists who came for the first two Tests here and
in Antigua.
The second Test is in Antigua April 8-13, the third in Trinidad April
21-26 and the fourth and final in Jamaica April 29 to May 3.
The teams:
Australia 12: Mark Taylor (captain), Michael Slater, David Boon, Mark
Waugh, Steve Waugh, Greg Blewett, Ian Healy, Paul Reiffel, Brendon
Julian, Shane Warne, Glenn McGrath, Tim May.
West Indies 13: Richie Richardson (captain), Stuart Williams, Sherwin
Campbell, Brian Lara, Jimmy Adams, Carl Hooper, Junior Murray, Winston
Benjamin, Curtly Ambrose, Courtney Walsh, Kenny Benjamin, Shivnarine
Chanderpaul and Rajindra Dhanraj.
