When the Dallas Cowboys intercept a pass, they score. When the New
Orleans Saints intercept a pass, they don't.
That proved to be the difference in the Saints' 24-16 loss to the
Cowboys on Monday night in the Louisiana Superdome.
The two-time defending Super Bowl champion Cowboys returned two
interceptions for touchdowns, eliminating New Orleans from the playoff
race and insuring only the second losing season in Jim Mora's nine
years as Saints' coach.
``I just think we made too many mistakes to beat this team. They are a
good football team and you can't give them things. You can't help them.
We just helped them too much,'' Mora said.
``I just turned the ball over too many times over to them. There are a
few balls I threw I wish I could have back,'' Saints quarterback Jim
Everett said.
The first interception Everett threw set the tempo for the game.
Effectively mixing the run and pass, the Saints were driving on the
opening possession of the game when Everett threw the ball into the
right flat which was intercepted by Cowboys defensive end Tony Tolbert
and returned 54 yards for a touchdown.
``On the first interception, they had a defensive lineman covering a
back. It was something new that I wasn't prepared for and he (Tolbert)
made a good play,'' Everett said.
Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman returned the favor late in the first
half. Saints defensive lineman Wayne Martin tipped a pass, with
linebacker Darion Conner coming up with the first interception of his
career, advancing the ball down to the Dallas 15-yard line.
The Saints (6-9) were unable to punch the ball into the end zone,
settling for a 21-yard Morten Andersen field goal to trail 7-3.
``When we had the opportunity to make big plays, we had to capitalize
on those big plays,'' Conner said. ``When (the Cowboys) got a chance to
make big plays, they capitalized. It's all a matter of who capitalizes
when they get the opportunity.''
The Saints appeared to take the lead when cornerback Jimmy Spencer
intercepted Aikman at the Cowboy 36 and raced into the end zone. The
officals, however, ruled Spencer stepped out of bounds at the 26-yard
line. Spencer disputed the ball, with stadium replays appearing to back
the cornerback's claim.
``When I ran it in, I was very excited. I was like, `hey, we're going
to beat these guys tonight,' and I started doing my little cowboy
imitation shooting them down. The next thing I know I'm walking down
the sideline, I'm looking like what's going on and was told the
officals said I was out of bounds. It's like everthing just dropped
(emotionally),'' Spencer said.
A disputed non-call came on the next play when Cowboys defensive back
Clayton Holmes appeared to rake Quinn Early's hands before the ball
reached him in the end zone on a pass from Everett.
``Cowboys, I mean, America's Team. You got the refs, they were probably
out there with their Dallas Cowboy underwear on and they were pulling
for the Cowboys, too,'' said Spencer, who himself had been called for
pass interference earlier in the game.
Once again, the Saints had to settle for an Andersen field goal,
pulling New Orleans within 7-6 with 50 seconds left before halftime.
``It's easy to cry about the calls, but the bottom line is you gotta
overcome anything out there. That's part of the football game. The game
doesn't say that if you get a bad call, that you wipe out a win or a
loss. You take it, you live with it, and that's that,'' Mills said.
A Chris Boniol field goal on the final play of the half extended the
Cowboys' lead to 10-6.
Dallas (12-3) went on a 16-play, 8:33 drive to open the second half,
with Emmitt Smith capping the drive with a 1-yard touchdown run and a
17-6 Cowboy lead.
Continuing a game-long pattern, the Saints drove the ball on the Dallas
defense, ranked No. 2 overall in the NFL, only to see the drive stall.
Andersen's 29-yard field goal pulled New Orleans within 17-9.
``We moved up and down the field, but in the first half, especially, we
didn't get it done. I think that's the key between us being a good
football team and very good football team, is finding a way to
(consistently put the ball in the end zone),'' Saints' All-Pro tackle
William Roaf said.
Everett's second interception of the game, this one tipped by Saints'
running back Derek Brown into the arms of Darrin Smith, was returned 13
yards for a touchdown and a 24-9 lead.
A 4-yard touchdown run by Brown with 5:37 left in the game pulled New
Orleans within 24-16, but any chance the Saints had to rally ended when
Everett threw his third interception of the game, this one again to
Smith with 2:52 left in the contest.
The two interceptions for touchdowns made up for a sub-par offensive
performance by the Dallas offense.
Smith rushed for 74 yards before leaving the game with a hamstring
injury with 1:11 left in the third quarter.
Aikman threw for 175 yards, but was intercepted twice.
If the Cowboys are to become the first team to win three straight Super
Bowls, the team will have to perform better than it has the last two
weeks, according to Aikman.
``This team has got to play better if we expect to do the things we
hope to do,'' said Aikman.
The Cowboys' lack of big plays on offense may have been due to Dallas
just taking what the Saints' defense was giving it, Mills said.
``I think they were taking the underneath stuff and taking what they
could get just to keep good down and distance situations so we couldn't
put a lot of pressure on Troy,'' said Mills.
(From The Houma Courier).
Story Filed By The COURIER PRESS, HOUMA, LOUISIANA
