TEHRAN Iran on Monday reclaimed its full sovereignty over three disputed
islands in the Gulf in response to a renewed call of the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) for a peaceful settlement to Tehran's "occupation" of the
islands. "As it has been emphatically reiterated, the three islands are
inseparable part of the Iranian territory," Iranian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi was quoted by the state-run television as
saying.  (Iran-UAE-Islands) - - - - DAVOS, SWITZERLAND -- Peace and free
markets are important to the prosperity and stability in the Middle East,
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat said here Monday. "This just and
comprehensive peace which is based on the freedom of people and markets
will in turn create the proper environment for establishing a strong
regional economy that will revive our area again and enable it to catch up
with the rest of the world," said Arafat while addressing the 30th annual
meeting of the World Economic Forum. (Geneva-Arafat-Prosperity) - - - -
LONDON -- British High Court is due to give a decision Monday on whether
former Chilean leader Augusto Pinochet could be allowed to return home
while a plane from Chile is waiting near London to take the general
back. Belgium and six human rights groups are mounting a legal challenge to
the proposal to free the general from house arrest in
Britain. (Britain-Chile-Pinochet) - - - - BEIRUT -- Two Israeli soldiers
were killed and several others injured on Monday in an attack launched by
Lebanese guerrillas, Lebanese security officials said. The guerrillas waged
the attack on an Israeli patrol near the Israeli outpost at Beaufort,
overlooking southern Lebanon and northern Israel, before midday, the
unnamed officials said. ( Lebanon-Israeli Soldiers-Killed) - - - -
MOGADISHU -- A Somali food aid convoy, which was ambushed in Buqdah
Village, 286 km north of Somali capital Mogadishu last Friday, hit a land
mine and met a second ambush on its way to the famine stricken district of
Tieglow in Bakol region. The convoy carrying maize and cooking oil donated
by CARE- International and accompanied by ten battle wagons and nearly 100
heavily armed militiamen left Bulo Burte town on Sunday
morning. (Somalia-Ambush)
