33 more Moslem Brothers to go before military court
A military tribunal will begin the trial of 33 members of the Moslem
Brotherhood on Thursday in a second case against the Egyptian
fundamentalist group, legal sources said.
Meanwhile the military trial of 49 other Moslem Brothers, which began
September 16, was set to continue on Wednesday.
The new defendants include Abdel Menem Abu Fattuh, the former head of
the doctors' union and a candidate in legislative elections set for
November, and Salah Abdel Maqsud, a member of the directing council of
the journalists' union, the sources said.
The 33 are charged with "directing a political party in contradiction
of the law and belonging to the Moslem Brotherhood organization which
works against the law and constitution."
Four of the accused also face charges of "distributing papers and
literature inciting hatred of the ruling government."
Prosecutors have asked for the harshest possible sentence, life
imprisonment, the sources said.
Abu Fattuh was arrested on October 9 with 14 others. Abdel Maqsud was
taken by police on Friday at Cairo airport as he prepared to leave for
Turkey. He is the first member of the journalists' union ever to go
before a military court.
Five of the defendants were originally accused of "financing fugitive
terrorist elements" when they were first arrested in late September in
the southern province of Minya. But those charges were dropped from the
charge sheet for Thursday.
One defendant, Gamal Saad, a publisher, is charged in both military
trials.
President Hosni Mubarak has come under fire for his decision to try the
81 before a military tribunal which usually considers cases connected
to Moslem militant unrest, even though none of the defendants are
accused of planning "terrorism" or "violence."
Banned in 1954, the Brotherhood has been tolerated by the government
since 1976 when it said it foreswore violence in its campaign for
Islamic rule in Egypt.
But the truce came to an end last year when Mubarak accused the group
of being behind armed extremist groups seeking to overthrow his
government. Dozens of arrests followed.
The Brotherhood accuses the state of using the trials to sabotage its
chances in parliamentary elections set for November 29.
Essam Eryan, one of the accused in the first trial, told AFP that 50 of
the total 79 Brotherhood defendants would present themselves as
candidates in the elections.
