Early voting to end Tuesday in landmark Bosnia vote
Early voting by Bosnian refugees around the world was due to end
Tuesday, bringing down the curtain on the first stage of Bosnia's
landmark general elections less than two weeks before the main polling
day.
Some 640,000 Bosnians who fled three and a half years of fighting in
their country have until midnight (2200 GMT) to cast their ballots in
special polling stations or by postal vote in 55 countries from Albania
to the United States.
The rest of the nation votes on September 14 to pick a new
republic-wide collective presidency and national parliament, and
legislative assemblies for post-war Bosnia's two entities: the
Moslem-Croat federation and Republika Srpska.
Municipal elections were last month postponed by the Organisation for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) which is supervising the
polls, citing massive voter registration fraud by Serbs and Croats.
However, cantonal elections (to select regional councils) in the
Moslem-Croat federation, are to go ahead as planned.
Participation in the early voting varied widely in Croatia, Germany and
Serbia, the three countries where most exiled Bosnian refugees live.
Strong weekend turnouts in Croatia and the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, where respectively an estimated 65 percent and 80 percent of
voters took part in the poll, were not mirrored in Serbia and Germany.
In Germany, which plays host to most of Bosnia's Moslem refugees,
turnout surged forward Tuesday to scrape over the 50 percent barrier,
OSCE spokesman Jens Grimm said.
Some 48,000 postal votes arrived Tuesday morning alone, he said. Many
of the 128,000 Bosnian refugees registered to vote had complained they
had only received voting papers in the middle of last week.
In Sarajevo John Fawcett of the International Crisis Group (ICG), an
organistion monitoring implementation of the Dayton accords, explained
intial reports of a low turnout, saying: "Most of the turnout looks to
be by mail. They (the OSCE) expect to receive lots of mail in the
coming days."
However, Fawcett said ICG monitors in Belgrade were suspicious about
some of the ballots that had been arriving. "Tens of ballots have
arrived without post-marks which is a bit surprising. It appears that
they could be coming straight from the post office," Fawcett said.
In Belgrade, the OSCE said 32,000 of the 85,000 Bosnians had voted by
Tuesday, some 38 percent of registered refugee voters in the Federal
Yugoslavia.
"We are not entirely satisfied with the level of participation, notably
in the polling stations," OSCE observer Jerome Leyraud told AFP.
Numerous refugees had complained that they had not received ballot
papers, but he was unable to say how many had been affected.
The OSCE has blamed late arrival of ballot papers and complex voting
rules for the low turnout and discounted an Moslem aborted boycott, but
human rights officials have expressed fears that voter manipulation by
the Yugoslav refugee commission could be the cause.
In Vienna officials said "several thousand" of the almost 28,000
Bosnians in Austria registered to vote had cast their ballots, but was
not more specific.
The OSCE, which expressed satisfaction with the level of participation
in Croatia, expects initial results from the general elections -- the
first in post-war Bosnia -- to start emerging three days after polling
stations close in the country on September 14.
"We don't have a definite time, it just depends on how quickly the
results come in," Kuperman said Monday.
