Benazir Bhutto To Try To Curb Militant Muslims
Militant Muslims vowed Monday to fight Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's
plans to curb their influence and take away their weapons.
Ms. Bhutto met with provincial leaders and government ministers Sunday
to map out a strategy to try to end the sectarian violence that has
killed or wounded hundreds of people in recent years.
Much of Ms. Bhutto's strategy appeared to be directed at controlling
thousands of religious schools, often considered the centers of
military training and fundamentalists teachings.
Many of these schools, known as madrases, are believed to be funded by
fundamentalists in the Middle East, particularly from Iran and Saudi
Arabia.
Ms. Bhutto promised to check the funding of the schools, outlaw
military training camps run by religious groups and weed out foreign
students who the government believes are troublemakers, a government
release said.
``The government is dreaming if it thinks it will be able to control
the workings of the madrases,'' said Zia-ur-Rehman Farooqui, an
official of the militant Sunni group called the Soldiers of the Friends
of the Prophet.
``We will not comply if the government tries to take away our weapons,
It would be suicide,'' he said.
Farooqui's group regularly clashes with militant Shiites, most of whom
belong to the Organization for the Implementation of Shiite laws.
Farooqui said Iran was the big backer of Pakistan's militant Shiites, a
charge they deny. Most Iranians are Shiites.
``We have not taken even a dagger from the Iranian government,'' said
Allama Sajid Naqvi, chief of the Shiite group.
Most of Pakistan's 120 million people are Sunni Muslims and they
generally get along with their Shiite brethren.
But, in recent years militant groups have sprung up and they routinely
clash.
Last year, rival Islamists began attacking each other's mosques,
gunning down worshippers as they knelt in prayer, planting bombs in
prayer halls, killing and maiming hundreds of people.
A busload of Shiite Muslims were sprayed with bullets in the southern
city of Karachi killing eight people and wounding several others.
There were dozens of reports of mosques attacked by masked gunmen. Hit
squads began to appear, particularly in the southern port city of
Karachi, where much of the violence has been centered.
Gunmen stalked and killed several Shiite and Sunni activists.
While much of the violence has occurred in Karachi, several other
cities in Pakistan have been effected. Bombs have gone off in mosques
in the eastern city of Lahore and in central Punjab province, where 60
percent of Pakistanis live.
Earlier Ms. Bhutto warned that sectarian violence threatened Pakistan's
existence.
Iqbal Ahmed, a political analyst and university professor, said
graduates of religious schools are imbued with Islamic fervor and
little else.
They don't have the skills to get a decent job yet they believe they
are destined to run the country, he said.
``These schools are turning out graduates who have no practical skills.
They have spent 15 years studying the Koran. When they graduate they
can't get a job, they get frustrated and join these radical groups,''
Ahmed said.
