Missing Children Believed Shaved Say Amish Detectives.
News just in of a bizarre twist in a recent spate of child kidnappings
in Rio De Janero. For several months, small young children all aged
around five or six have been mysteriously disappearing from the streets
of Rio in Brazil near Chile.
Man Attacked By Hamster
Armed police were called to a house in Evesham today after a man was
attacked by a crazed escaped hamster.
Funny story: Doctors at Lowest Point Ever
Doctors at Lowest Point Ever
In a report out today, statistics show that Doctors' morale is at it's
lowest point since records began in 1554.
Gorby and JK Rowling in Charity Gala
A gilttering array of stars attended a Gala evening hosted by former
Russian communal President Mikhail Gorbachev. The event was held to
raise funds in aid of the charity namede after Gorbachev's late wife.
Brown To Get Tough on Terror
Gordon Brown has announced that he is to get tough on terror by
awarding police sweeping new powers; for example: extending the current
28 day detention for questioning suspected terrorists to 25 years.
Funny story: Bush Urges Meeting to Curb Unwanted Emmisions
Bush Urges Meeting to Curb Unwanted Emmisions
George Bush has recently bee criticised for his stance on global
warming. So far, George has given the impression that he doesn't care a
tinker's cuss about the planet and is more concerned with other stuff
but has just announced that 15 infl...
Whales Attacked Over Japanese Hunt
Whales have been severely criticised over their request to the
International Hunting Commission, to lift the moratorium on the
commercial hunting of the Japanese.
Big Brother Housemates in Jam
The eigth series of Big Brother is set to hit our screens this summer
and news of the housemates have just been announced. This year there
will be a member of the womens' institute and an old granny and a child
who is a member of techno beat comb...
Man to Eat Queen?
A British artist is said to be ready and and willing to a member of the
royal family live on TV. A source informed us that this was in protest
at the way Prince Philip is possibly perceived by the press and the
general public as a cruel bigoted snob,...
17 and Always Drunk
Figures published today have shown that most 17-24 year olds spend
their lives drunk. It has also revealed that more and more of our young
people are going the same way.
Teletubbies Too Sexy for Polish TV
News just in from our Polish children's TV correspondant has told us
that an investigation is to be launched as to whether the cult TV
children's drama "Teletubbies" promotes homosexuality.
Museum Exhibit Confirms Earth Made In Seven Days.
A startling new exhibition in America has confirmed what religion
people and the authors of the bible have said all along; the Earth and
all it's animals were made in six days by God.
Police Stop and Question Means Prizes
New police powers are being considered that will mean that any officer
is allowed to stop and question. This is part of the new crackdown on
terrorists.
Funny story: Emperor of Japan to Dine At Heathrow
View 'Emperor of Japan to Dine At Heathrow'
Emperor of Japan to Dine At Heathrow
Emperor Akihito and his Mrs are to dine with the Queen and Prince
Philip when they visit the country on Sunday 27 May.
