Britain launches "revolution" in pensions
As countries across Europe grapple with the problem of how to fund the
pensions of rapidly ageing populations, Britain may be leading the way
with a radical plan to privatize the state pensions system.
Unveiling an initiative to replace state pensions over the next few
decades with privately-funded retirement schemes, Conservative Prime
Minister John Major declared he was heralding a "revolution."
Throughout Europe, the present system of state pensions, under which
today's workers support those in retirement, is approaching a crisis
next century, when there will be insufficient people in work to pay for
the pensions of growing numbers of old people.
In contrast to other European countries, private pension schemes are
already commonplace in Britain and run alongside the state-funded
safety net, but there are still fears that the current system might
place an impossible burden on the workforce.
In the 1980s, former Conservative prime minister Margaret Thatcher's
mass privatization programme inspired Latin American governments to
sell off their loss-making state enterprises in later years.
This time, the roles were reversed: the inspiration for the
Conservative plan came from Chile, where in 1981 the Chilean dictator,
General Pinochet, privatized the country's near-bankrupt state pension
system.
Like the Chilean model, the British system would be compulsory, but
unlike in Chile, the Conservatives do intend to guarantee a basic
pension paid by the state for the unemployed and other disadvantaged
people.
However, this will be pegged at today's basic state pension of 61.15
pounds (98.50 dollars) per week, index-linked to inflation, which will
not provide even a minimum standard of living.
"The snag, in terms of provision, is that the guaranteed minimum would
be so low, after the changes since 1979, as to make the safety net safe
only for ascetics," the Financial Times business daily pointed out in
an editorial.
The Conservative party is widely expected to lose national elections
due by May 1, but the main opposition Labour party is still expected to
embrace the idea that private pensions should be given a bigger role.
Labour's Social security spokesman, Harriet Harman, said the party
would "look carefully" at the proposals, but criticized the fact that
they would mean "the end of state pensions."
Under the Conservative plan, which would be phased in from around 2002
to 2040 for young people in their early 20s, employees would be exempt
from payments currently used to support those claiming state retirement
benefits.
This money would be ploughed into their own personal retirement funds
managed by pension funds approved by the government.
Social Security Secretary, Peter Lilley, said that a person on average
earnings could expect to build up a fund of 130,000 pounds, which would
pay a pension of 175 pounds a week.
Lilley said that in the longer-term, the government could save 40
billion pounds a year, as the cost of state pensions fell to around 10
billion pounds a year.
However, Labour estimates that the cumulative bill for introducing the
system would run to 150 billion pounds, because the state would
continue to provide state pensions to the existing population, but
would not receive funds from new entrants to the jobs market.
There is also concern about the poor track-record of the pension
industry, which has been accused of charging exorbitant administrative
charges for personal pensions.
