Systematizing Multinational Corporations' Investment In China 
Chinese economists noticed some time ago that foreign investment was
sparsely scattered and not systematic, but it was not until the second
half of 1994 that multinationals actually did something about it.
A recent survey has shown that investment by multinationals in China is
becoming more systematic, even as it grows in scale. To invest
systematically in China, multinationals have set up bases for product
development, after-sales service, and personnel training, while
investment scope has expanded from manufacturing to banking, insurance,
consultation, transportation and other interrelated industries.
Ji Chongwei, a research fellow with the Research and Development Center
of the State Council, says that many multinationals believe that China
is an ideal place to invest, and more than 200 of the best known,
including ten of Germany's largest industrial giants, and 17 of Japan's
top 20, are in China.
Wang Zhile, an economist who has studied more than 50 multinationals
now operating in China, says that most have joint-stock investment
companies in China, which is regarded as an important step toward
systematic investment. He has found that joint-stock companies with
agencies, marketing, personnel training, financial aid and information
services can co-ordinate scattered investment and build a unified
system.
Omron Corporation of Japan was the first to open an investment
joint-stock company in China, followed by Japan's Hitachi, Matsushita,
Sanyo, Fujitsu, Toshiba, Alps and Isuzu, and Germany's Siemens,
Hoechst, Bayer and Henkel.
Experts said that many transnational corporations have worked out
realistic development strategies, emphasizing the localization of parts
and spares, technology development and qualified personnel training.
Siemens has so far set up more than 30 joint ventures in China and the
number will soar to 50 at the end of this century. By then, Siemens
will have an investment of one billion dollars, have 30,000 employees
here, and annual sales of as much as 10 billion US dollars, while
German chemical giant BASF plans to establish a petrochemical base in
China.
Most investment by multinationals is now in the Pearl River and Yangtze
River deltas, and along the Bohai rim. But China's westward push in its
development strategy has caused some multinationals, like Siemens, to
begin paying closer attention to the country's interior.
