Late Wicket Put West Indies on Top 
A wicket on the last ball before lunch swung an unspectacular morning
session the West Indies' way on the first day of the second Test at
Lord's, with England going into lunch at 70 for two.
With lunch looming, Graeme Hick prodded at a full length ball from Ian
Bishop and found the edge which Brian Lara took low down at first slip.
England looked like having the upper hand after a slow, but steady
innings by Alec Stewart following the departure of his opening partner
and captain Mike Athertion with the score on 29.
Stewart returned to his favored opening position, and although he
looked labored at times, was determined to build the base England needs
to level the series with a dour 33 not out at the break.
Stewart was not completely at ease, edging Ottis Gibson through slips
for two fours in one over.
He clipped Gibson off his pads for a glorious four to the long on
boundary off the Barbados bowler's first ball in Test cricket, but two
balls later, Gibson's swing caught Stewart in two minds and a late
decision to withdraw his bat almost cost his wicket.
The ball took the face of the bat as he drew it back and just missed
off stump on its way past wicketkeeper Junior Murray to the fence for
four.
Gibson looked impressive on is Test debut, in for the injured Kenny
Benjamin, finding some swing, but at a much gentler pace than his more
famed partners Bishop, Curtly Ambrose and Courtney Walsh.
Atherton won the toss and elected to bat on a hard and true pitch, but
fell to a superb ball from Ambrose.
He appeared in good touch as he dominated his brief stand with Stewart,
but when on 21, could not handle a perfect delivery.
A fast inswinging yorker moved just enough off the seam to beat
Atherton's bat as he hurried down on it and hit the base of off stump.
Allrounder Dominic Cork was selected to make his Test debut for
England, with Phil DeFreitas named 12th man. Teams:
England_Michael Atherton (captain), Alec Stewart, Graeme Hick, Graham
Thorpe, Robin Smith, Mark Ramprakash, Dominic Cork, Darren Gough,
Richard Illingworth, Angus Fraser, Peter Martin.
West Indies_Carl Hooper, Sherwin Campbell, Brian Lara, Jimmy Adams,
Richie Richardson (captain), Keith Arthurton, Junior Murray, Ottis
Gibson, Ian Bishop, Curtly Ambrose, Courtney Walsh.
Umpires: David Shepherd (England), Sri Venkataraghavan (India).
