Doping to be allowed at Olympic Games
In response to sagging television ratings and decreased interest, the
International Olympic Committee has decided to allow athletes the use
of performance-enhancing drugs and has abandoned all urine and blood
analysis.
"We had dismal ratings for the Winter Olympics this years", Olympic
Committee spokesperson Jason Felder said at a news conference. "We
would have a much greater viewership if the Games were more exciting.
We will not make the same mistake for the Summer Games."
Most of the athletes expressed enthusiasm at the Committee's decision.
"We've been doping up for years anyway", said speed skater Tonya
Michaels, "Just now we won't have to hide it. You don't think I got
these powerful thighs and tight ass from exercise alone, do you?"
US Super-Heavyweight weightlifter Todd Rogers expressed relief at the
decision. "I was so afraid I was gonna get caught this time", he
remarked. "Now I can take my medications' without fear of being tossed
off the team".
International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge said that he
was sick and tired of perfectly good athletes being ousted from the
Games for taking cold medications or attempting to better themselves in
any way possible. "We now encourage athletes to do whatever it takes to
be the best they can be", he said. "With this long-overdue decision
form the Committee we will now see records broken like never before.
Runners will run faster. Weightlifters will be lifting twice what they
could before. Gymnasts will be able to perform acrobatics that the
world has never seen! I anticipate the entire world will be watching
the Games this year without exception. Advertising revenues will go
through the roof!"
A very small percentage of athletes did not welcome the news so
quickly. "I'm allergic to some of those drugs", said African marathon
runner Xula Kinte. "I am #1 in the world but I won't stand a chance
this time".
After this interview Kinte was assured by doctors that hypo-allergenic
performance enhancing drugs were now available and he was noticeably
relieved. "Olympics move you ass here I come!" Kinte exclaimed
excitedly.
Olympic financial spokesperson Delores Johansen said this move will
enable the Olympic Committee to save money. "It only makes goos fiscal
sense to abandon the drug testing", she stated, "drug testing costs
thousands of dollars per athlete. We will now be able to make the Games
profitable without destroying the good names of the athletes."
Dr. Harvey Johnson, the US Olympic Committee's chief of Medicine said
that this could be the best thing for the athletes. "As long as they
are taking the drugs under a doctors supervision they will be fine", he
stated. "It's only dangerous when they take the drugs off the street
and try to hide it from urinalysis that it becomes a problem. The
athletes will be much healthier if they don't go downing all those
cover-ups agents. That's where the real health threats lie".
Dr. Johnson recommends anabolic steroids for weight-lifters, gymnasts,
short distance runners and anyone doing strength training. He also
recommended Human Growth Hormone to aid distance runners in their
recovery capacity and, in particular, help female runners build up
strength and endurance. He did advise against wanton use of
amphetamines as the could cause a hear attack. "But they will make you
run a little faster so the choice is yours", Dr. Johnson continued.
The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) is opposed to the Olympic
Committee's decision. "We have spent years trying to prevent people
from taking drugs and enjoying themselves", said WADA spokesperson
Francois Egalite. "We can't have athletes taking things like
androstenediol, androstenedione, bolasterone, boldenone, clenbuterol,
clostebol, danazol, dehydrochlormethyltestosterone,
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), dihydrotestosterone, drostanolone,
fluoxymesterone, formebolone, gestrinone, mesterolone, metandienone,
metenolone, methandriol, methyltestosteroiie, mibolerone, nandrolone,
19-norandrostenediol, 19-norandrostenedione, norbolethone,
norethandrolone, oxandrolone, oxymesterone, oxymetholone, salbutamol,
stanozolol, testosterone and trenbolone! " It just wouldn't be right!
The newly-enhanced Olympics will be held in Turin this year. Turin
officials are making the drugs available on an "as wanted" basis.
