Israel Says It Won't Confiscate More Land in East Jerusalem
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, trying to defuse the latest crisis
threatening Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, promised Sunday that
Israel would not confiscate any more Arab land in Jerusalem.
The government refused, however, to back down on plans to confiscate
140 acres (57 hectares) of mostly Arab-owned land in the contested
eastern part of the city to build more housing for Jews and a police
station.
Marwan Kanafani, spokesman for PLO leader Yasser Arafat, called that
refusal ``a blow to the peace process that will strengthen the position
of the enemies of peace on both sides.''
The Palestinian minister in charge of Jerusalem affairs, Faisal
Husseini, said Rabin's pledge not to seize more land in Jerusalem was
meaningless because Israel had already confiscated so much. The Arab
League called the decision ``worthless.''
Israel last month announced plans to confiscate land in east Jerusalem,
which the Palestinians want as the capital of their would-be state.
Palestinians said the seizure could be the final blow to already
teetering peace talks with Israel, and the move drew international
condemnation.
The confiscation plan was approved at the weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday
despite opposition from the Meretz party, the left-wing coalition
partner of Rabin's Labor party.
But Rabin ``stated very clearly that there will be no new confiscation
of land in Jerusalem for building purposes,'' said Environment Minister
Yossi Sarid of the Meretz party.
The government could still confiscate land for roads or other public
works, ministers said.
Rabin emphasized that the confiscation can still be appealed by
landowners, said Education Minister Amnon Rubinstein, also of Meretz.
If those appeals drag on past 1996, when talks on the final status of
Jerusalem are supposed to start, the issue could become moot.
Rabin said the government, in coordination with city officials, would
also look for ways to give more building permits to Arabs in Jerusalem.
Under Israeli zoning laws, Arabs are not allowed to build on more than
half of the land Israel annexed after capturing east Jerusalem in the
1967 Mideast war.
There are 405,000 Jews and 155,000 Palestinians living in Jerusalem.
Virtually all the Palestinians live in east Jerusalem, where today they
make up just under half the population.
Sunday's decision appeared to be a compromise aimed at ending
international criticism of Israel over Jerusalem, the most explosive
issue in the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. Israel insists the city,
with sites holy to Jews, Muslims and Christians, must never be divided
again.
Rabin said the decision was made in part to ensure ``world
understanding for the unity of Jerusalem.''
Environment Minister Sarid underscored that point, saying it was in
Israel's own interest to treat Arab residents of the city more fairly.
``Otherwise our chances to maintain sovereignty over Jerusalem are
very, very slim,'' he said.
The Cabinet decision was attacked by Jerusalem Mayor Ehud Olmert, who
rejected the suggestion that the city could expand toward the west
instead of the east.
Husseini said Sunday's resolution would make no difference to
Palestinians.
``It is only words,'' he told The Associated Press. ``What we really
need to help the peace process is to sit at the table and open the file
of Jerusalem and look to see what we can do together.''
Husseini and Police Minister Moshe Shahal met Sunday night in
Jerusalem, police officials said. Israel Television said they were
discussing the land confiscation issue.
The Israeli human rights group Betselem issued a report Sunday accusing
Israel of ``systematic and deliberate discrimination against the city's
Palestinian population.''
The report said that of 38,500 housing units built by Israel on land
confiscated from Palestinians, not one was for Palestinians. In all, 88
percent of homes constructed in Jerusalem since 1967 were in Jewish
neighborhoods, Betselem said.
