Couple Prepares To Run Russian-American School in Moscow
Russia lacks Christian educational institutions, and the United States
has enough to share, says a Kansas college dean who is helping open the
new Russian-American Christian University in Moscow.
Stanley Clark is vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty
at Tabor College, a campus of about 450 students in Hillsboro. He and
his wife, Susan, who is director of foundation and corporate relations
at Tabor, have spent their careers working at Christian colleges.
In July, they will move to Moscow to help lead Russia's first Christian
college.
``We understand the role of the Christian college,'' Stanley Clark told
the Hays Daily News.
After seven decades of communist rule, which prohibited Christianity,
Russia has few Christians in leadership positions, he said. Many
Christians are poor and undereducated.
As Russian society grows more open, the government is seeking to
develop values among its people, he said.
Russia's deputy minister of higher education asked the Coalition of
Christian Colleges and Universities, of which Tabor is a member, to
start a Christian university similar to the ones in the United States,
Clark said.
``They wanted to improve the general state of values in their
country,'' he said.
The Clarks have worked closely with the coalition for years, and when
the opportunity to serve in Russia came along, they decided to take it.
Stanley Clark will serve as vice president and Susan as director of
personnel and community relations at the university.
``We've wanted to work in an international setting for many years,''
Stanley Clark said.
The timing is right for them personally. Their youngest child will
graduate from high school in May. Their parents are healthy and
supportive.
``Our parents don't need us, and our children are saying, `Go!''' Susan
Clark said.
The Russian university provides the Clarks a chance to fulfill a
mission. Stanley's twin brother translates Bibles in New Guinea and his
parents have served as missionaries. Susan's father, a former personnel
director for a major company, has entered the ministry.
The university is to be operated as a partnership with the Russians,
Stanley Clark said. The board of directors is half Russian and half
American. The goal is to have a Russian president.
The university will be funded through tuition, sponsorship by an
international organization that Clark didn't want to identify yet,
donations from foundations, and Christian colleges in the United
States.
A team affiliated with the Coalition of Christian Colleges and
Universities has been setting up the groundwork in Moscow. This spring,
the team is conducting seminars to attract interest. Twenty to 30
people have been attending.
``The age range is very wide, from 16 to 60,'' Clark said.
Those attending the seminars do not speak English, so classes must be
taught in Russian. They expect about 60 people in the first class.
Two majors will be offered, business and literature. Eventually, a
Bible major will be available.
