Simpson Friend, Former Policeman, Say Simpson Dreamed of Killing 
O.J. Simpson confided the day after his ex-wife's slaying that he had
dreams about killing her, according to a witness who said he testified
to cleanse his conscience.
Ronald Shipp, a soft-spoken former policeman, insisted under fierce
cross-examination Wednesday that he didn't tell police earlier about
the alleged remarks because ``I didn't want to go down as the person
who nailed O.J.''
``You're not, so don't worry about it,'' defense attorney Carl Douglas
snapped as he tried to portray Shipp as a lying hanger-on, not a
confidant of Simpson's.
Simpson, a football legend turned actor and television sports
commentator, is charged with the June 12 stabbing deaths of his ex-wife
Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman. He faces life in
prison if convicted.
Prosecutors won permission from Superior Court Judge Lance Ito to
question Shipp about the purported exchange despite strong objections
from the defense, which insisted the conversation never took place and
was inadmissible.
Legal experts were divided over whether the judge had given the defense
powerful grounds for appeal. And psychologists warned that dreams
aren't actions and are beyond the control of the dreamer.
``If we got charged with everything we dreamed about, we'd be in jail
most of our lives,'' said psychologist Rosalind Cartwright, director of
the sleep disorders service at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical
Center in Chicago.
As he and Simpson exchanged piercing glances across the courtroom,
Shipp poured out his story of a troubled Simpson asking about DNA
results and confiding about his dreams less than 24 hours after the
slayings.
On the night of June 13, 1994, after Simpson had been interviewed by
police about the murders, Simpson asked him to come to his bedroom,
Shipp said.
``He jokingly said, `To be honest, Shipp, I've had some dreams of
killing her,''' Shipp said.
The judge barred Shipp from telling jurors that Simpson said the dreams
were why he didn't want to take a lie-detector test.
The power of the testimony showed in the faces of jurors, who were
rapt. Some looked down in their laps as the attack on Shipp escalated.
At one point, the witness looked across the room at Simpson, sighed and
said, ``This is really sad, O.J.''
During cross-examination, Shipp admitted he once had a drinking
problem, but he never wavered from his claim that Simpson told him
about his dreams.
``I'm doing this for my conscience and my peace of mind,'' Shipp told
Douglas. ``I will not have the blood of Nicole on Ron Shipp. I can
sleep at night, unlike a lot of others.''
Under questioning by the prosecution, Shipp testified about his
friendship with Simpson and said he acted as go-between and counselor
on domestic violence after Simpson fought with his wife in 1989.
On Tuesday, a detective testified that Ms. Simpson said the fight
started after Simpson had sex with another woman in their house and
then climbed into bed with Ms. Simpson. Photos displayed by the
prosecution showed Ms. Simpson's bruised forehead and cut lip.
Shipp, who as a police officer had studied domestic violence, said he
met with the Simpsons separately to discuss wife battering.
He said he showed each one a textbook profile of the typical wife
beater. Ms. Simpson, he testified, said all the descriptions fit her
husband, but Simpson could find little resemblance to himself in the
profile.
``He said, `Maybe I'm a little jealous. That's all,''' Shipp testified.
``He said he loved Nicole and he would never do anything to hurt her.
He said it was an isolated incident.''
