Lakers Fading And Other Thoughts...
I think Jerry West is the best executive in professional sports.
However, the true test of his ability is upon us, and he seems to be
faltering. He can't seem to lure a high-priced free agent to join the
Lakers' rebuilding effort, and he can't swing a trade to get rid of
some of the team's dead wood. Like Magic Johnson said this week, the
Lakers need a star. Unless they get one soon, they are in danger of
hovering near mediocrity for years to come. ...
Even if the Rams decide to remain in Anaheim, I would think this ``Save
the Rams'' organization would still have a lot of work on its hands.
...
I assume that Albert Belle's favorite character on ``Murphy Brown'' is
Corky. ...
All along I felt the ideal time to start up that professional soccer
league would be immediately after the World Cup. Now that a baseball
strike is looming, it looks like an even dumber decision to wait until
spring. ...
Ron Harper showed up at the Sheraton Grande on Thursday to be there
when Bill Fitch was named head coach. I didn't think the guy who is in
jail is supposed to be the one doing the visiting. ...
Saw where Moldova is at the bottom of the medal standings in the
Goodwill Games. I smell a front-office shake-up coming. ...
News of the existence of an explicit videotape taken during the wedding
night of Tonya Harding and Jeff Gillooly came during the same week that
Jose Canseco said he would make a tape showing inconsistencies in his
strike zone. The common thread is that the latter will illustrate many
bad calls while the former will depict one big one. ...
Correct me if I'm wrong, but wouldn't it have made more sense if Tony
Meola signed somewhere in the NFL as a punter? ...
In retrospect, it looks as though the Danny Manning-Dominique Wilkins
deal was the proverbial trade that humiliates both teams. ...
If I had a choice between attending a town meeting featuring
appearances by Huffington and Feinstein, and a gathering of drunken
village idiots incapable of uttering anything but the most primitive
guttural noises, you know I'm going to choose the one that offers the
most serious examination of the issues. ...
Bob Probert had better be careful or he risks alienating members of the
Hall of Fame committee. ...
After Kenny Rogers threw his perfect game, I heard Kenny Rogers music,
references to gambling, remarks about knowing when to hold and when to
fold, ad nauseam. I'm just hoping the next guy to throw a perfecto
isn't named Marky Mark. ...
If you see a pudgy, middle-aged man standing behind the plate during
Michael Jordan's games yelling, ``No batter! No batter! No batter!
Swiiinn
