Milovan Djilas, East Europe's Dissident-Writer, Dies at 83 
Milovan Djilas, who killed and risked death to build communism but then
become Stalinism's most incisive critic, has died. He was 83.
Djilas, once heir apparent to Yugoslavia's late Communist leader Josip
Broz Tito, died Thursday of heart failure at his central Belgrade home,
doctors said.
He was the last surviving member of the first Communist Politburo
headed by Tito, and his passing symbolized the death of the Yugoslav
federation the Communists built.
The imposing, intelligent Montenegrin shot to fame in the West in 1957
with the publication in New York of ``The New Class,'' a damning inside
account of how Communists who ruled in the name of proletarian egality
had amassed and abused power and privilege.
The book eventually sold 3 million copies in 60 languages.
But at home, Djilas dropped from the official public eye for decades
after defying Tito in 1953 with articles calling for greater freedom of
opinion and less party control over society.
He spent what he once termed ``nine cold winters'' in Tito's jails in
the 1950s and 1960s for publishing ``The New Class'' and
``Conversations With Stalin,'' a remarkable 1962 account of his
meetings with the man he called ``history's greatest criminal.''
After that, Djilas kept mostly to himself, writing several books and
keeping the company of his second wife, Stefanija, and son, Aleksa, who
later studied and taught in the United States.
Aleksa returned home to be with his widowed father last year. He told
The Associated Press that his father, who had a history of heart
trouble, received a medical checkup at the hospital on Wednesday and
had been advised to remain there, but he had refused.
Djilas' death received little official attention in Serbia, where he
was disliked either because of his early Communism and role in building
Tito's Yugoslavia, or for his more recent criticism of Serbian
President Slobodan Milosevic.
Former Yugoslav president and prominent writer Dobrica Cosic, a
lifelong friend of Djilas, summed up the contradictions.
``He was one of the ideologues of Yugoslav Stalinism,'' a shaken Cosic
told The AP. Yet he was also ``the most significant Yugoslav and
European rebel against Stalinism. Freedom was the motive of his
rebellion, democracy was the motive of his anti-Stalinism.''
The official Tanjug news agency ran a two-paragraph obit in Serbian and
a four-paragraph item on its English service, calling Djilas
``Yugoslavia's number one dissident.'' State television read the brief
Tanjug report at the end of its 40-minute nightly news.
Born June 4, 1911, into a peasant family in Montenegro, Djilas knew
great poverty and hunger. He was one of a generation of poor European
youth who were the first in their families to get education. Many --
like Djilas -- became Communists.
``The schools produced many new intellectuals, and they all became
Communists, because there weren't any other possibilities except to
create a war or a revolution,'' Djilas said in an Associated Press
interview in March 1994.
The outbreak of war in Yugoslavia with the Nazi invasion of 1941 saw
Djilas head to Montenegro to launch Communist resistance.
His wartime role is controversial; Serbian nationalist opponents later
accused him of ordering the execution of scores, if not hundreds, of
enemies.
In his memoir ``Wartime,'' he did not mask his readiness to kill, his
involvement in torture and interrogation, nor his indomitable will to
survive and win.
Djilas came close to death several times. He lost two brothers, a
sister and his father to horrible, different deaths, but consoled
himself: ``There is no ideal without a sacrifice. The ideal is more
important than any sacrifice, especially an individual one.''
Djilas met Tito, the party leader, in 1937 and became a member of the
Communist party Central Committee in 1938.
War brought the two men close, but they seem to have been warily
critical of each other, as if they sensed their ideological bond would
break.
The victory of the Yugoslav Communists -- aided by the Allies --
differentiated them from their east European comrades after World War
II. The Yugoslavs had made their own revolution. This unsettled the
Soviets and contributed to Tito's break with Stalin in 1948.
Djilas experienced this rupture first-hand through three meetings with
Stalin in 1944, 1945 and 1948.
Djilas' first glimpse of the man doctrinaire Communists then held up as
an idol was his first disillusionment -- Stalin was small, ungainly,
with a paunch, sparse hair and black teeth.
But Djilas had no doubt of Stalin's mental powers.
Even in 1994, when Djilas remembered Stalin, he seemed tense and extra
alert as he described ``the most dreadful tyrant.''
``He was a ball of nerves,'' Djilas told The AP then, clenching his
hands tight. In his presence, ``you couldn't do anything, make the
slightest gesture, that he wouldn't notice, and be interested.'' It
was, he reflected, ``a monstrous kind of intelligence.''
Djilas seldom made public appearances in his final years, but
occasionally spoke and wrote against Milosevic.
In 1991, he warned the only hope for peace in then-Yugoslavia was a
confederation. In an ominously accurate prediction in a 1991 German
interview, Djilas predicted that Croatian secession would lead to ``a
bloody civil war.''
Djilas will be buried in his native Montenegrin village of Podbisce. No
date had been set.
