Arrested Burma democrat MP dies after prison torture: Opposition 
An elected MP of the main opposition National League for Democracy
(NLD), who had been detained by Burmese military authorities, has died
in hospital, Burma's government-in-exile said Sunday.
In a fax received here, the National Coalition Government of the Union
of Burma (NCGUB) alleged that U Hla Than, 49, died in Rangoon General
Hospital Friday from internal injuries resulting from torture by prison
authorities.
Other sources confirmed that he had died but gave no details.
Aung San Suu Kyi, the NLD leader, made no mention of the death reports
at the regular weekend meetings in front of her Rangoon residence.
The NCGUB fax, issued by the organisation's Human Rights Documentation
Unit, said that U Hla Than was elected as MP for the Coco Islands
constituency during the 1990 elections, which were swept by the NLD but
never honoured by the ruling junta.
It added that 17 of the 485 MPs elected in 1990, when the NLD took 392
of the seats, are currently in detention.
The NCGUB is a coalition comprised of winners of the 1990 elections who
fled into exile, mostly in border areas with Thailand.
The death comes several weeks after Leo Nichols, the de facto honorary
consul of four European countries in Burma, died of an apparent stroke
on June 22 in Rangoon's notorious Insein prison, where he had just
begun a three-year sentence for unauthorized use of a fax and
telephone.
A scheduled memorial service for Nichols was called off last month
after Catholic officials in Rangoon were uneasy about holding the
service following the presence of undercover military intelligence
agents at Nichols' funeral on June 23, diplomats in Rangoon said.
Nichols, a close friend of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi,
represented the interests of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Switzerland,
all of which have unsuccessfully appealed for an independent autopsy to
be carried out on his body.
Norway has alleged that Nicols, 64, was arrested for political reasons,
tortured by being allowed insufficient sleep and had died in prison,
not in hospital as Burmese authorities have said.
Burma, which maintains that Nichols was treated well in prison and was
not tortured, has refused to carry out a fresh autopsy, saying that
such a move would compromise its sovereignty.
The case brought fresh condemnations on the Burmese junta, already
under pressure from the West because of a crackdown against the
opposition in May.
