Iran, Russia Concerned Over War in Afghanistan 
Iranian and Russian leaders voiced concern Monday over the escalating
civil war in Afghanistan, terming it a threat to regional security.
Iranian Majlis (Parliament) Speaker Ali Akbar Nateq Nouri and visiting
Chairman of Russian State Duma Gennady Seleznyov voiced their concern
during their talks Monday, the Iranian official news agency IRNA
reported.
Seleznyov, who arrived here Sunday night for an official visit, said
the ongoing Afghan crisis will endanger the security of the region and
increase drug trafficking.
Afghanistan has been bogged down in civil war since 1996 when the
Taliban militia ousted President Burhanuddin Rabbani.
Fightings between the Taliban and the Northern Alliance led by Rabbani
have escalated with the step-up of the Taliban's moves to expand its
controlled areas.
Nouri said the current situation in Afghanistan is a tragic issue for
all the humanity and it is regretful that the Taliban is plundering,
murdering, committing genocide and destroying Afghanistan.
The magnitude of the catastrophe is the fact that all indecent acts are
being carried out under the banner of Islam, he said, criticizing the
Taliban for creating unrest in the region and expanding smuggle of
narcotics.
Nouri noted that the only way to save Afghanistan is to form a
broad-based government made up of all groups, without foreign
intervention.
The speaker also said cooperation between Iran and Russia would be
important for this purpose.
Referring to the Caspian Sea, Seleznyov said the littoral states,
namely Iran, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Russia and Azerbaijan, should
employ more rational methods for exploitation of the sea's resources.
Nouri stressed that the Caspian region should remain as a non-military
zone and Iran believes all the countries concerned can reach consensus
on the determination of the Caspian legal regime.
Terming the Tehran-Moscow relations as "satisfactory," Nouri said that
the ties were growing and the two countries should utilize their
potential to deepen and expand mutual political and economic
cooperation.
Nouri also called for joint Tehran-Moscow efforts to thwart "enemies'
expansionist goals" in the region, apparently referring to the United
States and Israel.
Nouri condemned Israel's expansionist moves to Judaize Jerusalem and
change its demographic structure. He urged the international community
to address the issue.
Israel approved a plan on June 21 to extend Jerusalem municipal
authority to eight Jewish settlements in the West Bank, which violated
the spirit of its signed agreements with the Palestinians.
Terming Israel as a symbol of state terrorism, he said that Iran is
among the first victims of terrorism and believes that all countries
should uproot any form of terrorism through coordination.
