US throwing array of resources into Afghan hunt for bin Laden
The United States is throwing a wide array of resources into the hunt
for Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaeda loyalists, from high-tech
intelligence-gathering equipment to the eyes and ears of troops and
allies on the ground.
So far the effort has failed to turn up the alleged mastermind of the
September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.
"It's a huge area you try to patrol," Pentagon spokesman Richard McGraw
said Wednesday. "So you use whatever intelligence means that you have,
including unmanned aerial vehicles, satellites and assets on the
ground, and reconnaissance airplanes -- every asset at your disposal
..."
McGraw declined to confirm that air surveillance was taking place over
areas of Pakistan adjoining Afghanistan, and that US Special Forces
were already operating there, though experts said it was a near
certainty that this was indeed happening.
US warplanes were still conducting raids over Afghanistan but were
returning to base with their bombs unused because of an absence of
targets, the Pentagon said. These operations will carry on as warplanes
seek out targets of opportunity and unmanned spy planes continue to
gather intelligence, officials insisted.
The United States has deployed unmanned Predator and Global Hawk drones
to gather intelligence over Afghanistan. They have been joined by RC-35
and F-14/SR3 reconnaissance planes and probably high-altitude U-2
aircraft, according to experts.
With the Taliban dispersed and al-Qaeda on the run, photographic and
videotaped intelligence-gathering is less important but remains useful,
as does intercepting radio traffic, according to military analyst
Daniel Goure of the Lexington Institute.
A radio intercept recently placed bin Laden in Tora Bora, in eastern
Afghanistan, but since then no further radio traffic has been detected
from him and al-Qaeda radio traffic has greatly diminished.
Thus, the eyes and ears of US and allied forces on the ground have
gained significance in the intelligence effort.
Prisoner interrogation is also taking place, with 20 detainees
currently being questioned.
Five of those are non-Afghan citizens -- including John Walker, the
American Taliban fighter, as well as an Australian and, according to US
press reports, a Saudi worker for the Muslim humanitarian group Wafa.
Washington has also used money and other resources as
intelligence-gathering tools, offering a reward of 25 million dollars
for information leading to bin Laden's capture.
The reward forms part of a propaganda offensive and is advertised on
leaflets air-dropped over Afghanistan.
