In an unusual public clash reminiscent of Cold War debates, Russia's
foreign minister, Andrei Kozyrev, came to the Security Council on
Monday to win sympathy for Saddam Hussein but was roundly rebuffed by
the United States.
Kozyrev, fresh from a visit to Iraq and Kuwait, criticized the Iraqi
troop buildup near the Kuwaiti border for creating ``a dangerous
situation.'' But he also suggested that Iraq had no intention of
invading Kuwait, citing reports in the Iraqi press that the troops were
merely conducting maneuvers.
Speaking to the Security Council for the first time, Kozyrev said that
the joint communique that he won from Baghdad last week proved that
Iraq understood the need to recognize the sovereignty and borders of
Kuwait. The Russian official argued that the international community
must be prepared to consider lifting the oil embargo against Iraq if it
continues to cooperate with U.N. weapons monitors.
The presentation was sharply criticized by the chief U.S. delegate,
Madeleine K. Albright, though she did not address Kozyrev directly, and
the Russian's words drew no support from other Security Council
members.
What was exceptional about the meeting on Monday was that it pitted Ms.
Albright against Iraq's deputy prime minister, Tariq Aziz, and to a
lesser extent against Kozyrev, in a public Security Council forum.
Kozyrev's remarks and his presence in the Security Council chamber
seemed to give weight to a subsequent statement by Aziz, who accused
the United States and Britain of leading an unjust campaign to deny
Iraq economic relief despite what he called his country's cooperation
with the United Nations.
The meeting also drew attention to the vastly different approaches used
by Washington and Moscow in dealing with Saddam.
The United States insists on maximum Iraqi compliance with U.N. demands
without spelling out exactly what Saddam must do if he wants a partial
lifting of the sanctions, which were imposed after Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait in 1990 and at the end of the Persian Gulf war the next year.
According to this line of reasoning, if he complies with all of the
Security Council resolutions, he will probably not survive politically.
Russia, by contrast, follows a step-by-step approach that takes Saddam
at his word and would reward him in stages if he continues to show a
willingess to cooperate with the Security Council.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
That split was reflected in the statements during Monday's meeting.
``The Security Council must be ready to take yes for an answer if Iraq
really complies with all of the demands in all of the resolutions,''
Kozyrev said.
He laid out a timetable in which Iraq would first formally recognize
Kuwait. That would be followed by long-term monitoring of its weapons
programs a month from now and a possible Security Council decision to
lift the oil embargo against Iraq six months after that.
To rebut Kozyrev's assertion that the Iraqi military deployment was not
serious, Ms. Albright edited her prepared statement to insert a passage
declaring that the threat ``was real.'' She added that Iraq must not be
led to believe that it can choose ``in an a la carte fashion'' which of
its international obligations it will fulfill. ``It is not the
council's job to respond to a threat or to reward it with half
measures,'' she said.
She told Aziz bluntly: ``Words are cheap. Actions are the coin of the
realm.''
That assessment was echoed by the British representative, Sir David
Hannay, who told Aziz that recognition of Kuwait ``is not some carrot
to be dangled and then snatched away, as the Iraqi government is
currently doing.''
The most dramatic moment came when Sir David ended his remarks by
charging that ``the continued presence of Saddam Hussein as president
of Iraq'' made it difficult for the council to trust that Iraq will not
break its promises.
Aziz, who had been sitting back in his chair calmly smoking a cigarette
throughout much of the debate, became visibly distraught and began
scribbling notes on a white legal pad. His face flushed with anger, he
accused Sir David of interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign
nation.
While the remarks by Kozyrev and Aziz did not address a resolution that
was on the table, they gave an indication of how the debate on Iraqi
compliance with U.N. demands might unfold in the coming months. Over
the weekend, Russia joined other Security Council members in a
resolution condemning the deployment of Iraqi troops.
After the Security Council meeting, Aziz did not suggest that his
country was on the verge of a formal recognition of Kuwait's
sovereignty and borders that would meet the criteria set by the United
Nations. Asked by a reporter whether his country recognized Kuwait,
Aziz replied: ``It is under consideration.''
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
Pentagon officials said on Monday that they were encouraged that the
last two brigades of republican guard soldiers in southern Iraq were
moving north toward their home garrisons. But military intelligence
analysts said that they needed 24 to 48 hours to determine the Iraqi
troops' final destination.
Defense Secretary William J. Perry said last week that at least 30,000
American ground forces would go to Kuwait even if Iraq withdrew the two
republican guard divisions that menaced the Kuwaiti border. But
Pentagon officials on Monday were reviewing whether to send 18,000
Marines from Camp Pendleton and other bases in southern California,
given the easing tensions.
If the Marines do not deploy, the United States will eventually send
only 10,000 to 12,000 Marines and Army soldiers to Kuwait. There are
7,250 ground forces there now.
Perry had also said that 400 to 500 American combat aircraft would fly
to the gulf. Pentagon officials said on Monday that about 220 aircraft
had arrived so far, the deployments were slowing, and that the total
number might be less than originally planned.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
In Baghdad, Iraq's Parliament praised Saddam on Monday for his efforts
to win the lifting of economic sanctions but gave no sign that it had
voted in its closed session on recognizing Kuwait. Senior
administration officials believe that Iraq is holding out the prospect
of recognition in exchange for a timetable for lifting at least part of
the economic sanctions, which have devastated its economy over the last
four years.
The position taken by the United States, Britain, and France is that
for the Security Council to accept Iraq's recognition of Kuwait, its
Parliament must pass a decree to that effect; Saddm himself must sign
it; it must be published in the Iraqi Parliament's official gazette and
sent to the United Nations as a formal document.
Clinton administration officials in Washington and at the United
Nations said that the tone of Kozyrev's public remarks contrasted with
the warm atmosphere at a breakfast meeting on Monday with Secretary of
State Warren M. Christopher in Ms. Albright's residence.
After their meeting, Christopher said that the American partnership
with Russia was ``durable and working well.'' Another senior State
Department official said: ``The cooperative Kozyrev was in the private
meeting today.''
Those officials noted that Russia voted for the Security Council
resolution last Saturday night, demanding that Iraq withdraw its elite
troops from the Kuwaiti border, though it had tried to delay the vote
until after Kozyrev made his presentation on Monday.
But that action is separate from the issue of whether to eventually
lift economic sanctions. Iraq owes Russia billions of dollars from the
days when the Soviet Union was Baghdad's main arms supplier and has
signed $17 billion in potential new deals; so Moscow has an enormous
stake in helping the Iraqi regime to reopen trade.
