BETHLEHEM, West Bank: Palestinians hoisted their flag above Bethlehem and
began preparing for Christmas celebrations, praying for an "economic
miracle" in the traditional birthplace of Jesus Christ. Palestinian economy
minister Ahmed Korei raised the red, green, black and white flag over the
former military headquarters and symbol of Israel's 28 years of occupation
after the last troops withdrew. (Palestinians-Bethlehem) CAIRO: The
Palestinian militant group HAMAS refused to renounce its violent campaign
against Israel after reconciliation talks with the Palestinian Authority
failed to end its opposition to the peace process. The Islamic Resistance
Movement (HAMAS) also ruled out taking part in the first Palestinian
general elections, due next month under Israeli-PLO autonomy accords, but
agreed to avoid inciting supporters to boycott the polls.  (PLO-HAMAS)
NAIROBI: Eritrean President Issaias Afeworki proposed that Eritrean and
Yemeni troops both withdraw from three disputed Red Sea islands pending
international arbitration on the two countries' competing claims. The
evacuation from the Hanish archipelago should be monitored by a neutral
mediating body, Afeworki said in a statement which ruled out a unilateral
Eritrean withdrawal, as demanded by Sanaa.  (Yemen-Eritrea) BAGHDAD:
Iranian agents launched an attack against the Baghdad base of the armed
opposition People's Mujahedeen organization, killing an Iraqi national, the
group said. They attacked the rebel base with machine guns and hand
grenades but hit a car belonging to the local irrigation department,
killing the Iraqi driver and wounding an engineer, the Mujahedeen
said. (Iran-Iraq) JERUSALEM: Security has been stepped up around Prime
Minister Shimon Peres following an upsurge in threats against his life by
Jewish extremists opposed to the peace process, Israeli press reports
said. They quoted security officials as saying radical right-wing activists
planned to assassinate Peres out of frustration that Rabin's killing did
not put an end to the government's policy of trading land for peace with
Palestinians. (Israel-Peres) JERUSALEM: Israeli troops killed two
guerrillas in a clash in the Jewish state's self-declared security zone in
southern Lebanon, an army spokesman said. The skirmish took place in the
eastern sector of the security zone, a 10-kilometer (six-mile) deep strip
of land along Israel's northern border, the army said. (Israel-Lebanon)
ANKARA: A military court in the self-styled Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus jailed a Greek-Cypriot for nine months for illegally entering the
breakaway north and damaging military equipment, the Turkish-Cypriot news
agency TAK reported. Yannis Apostalides entered the Turkish-held territory
and his car hit a military vehicle on November 16, the agency
said. (Cyprus-Turkey)
