James Woolsey, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, has proved
beyond doubt that he is a gentleman. But his refusal to wield the ax in
the wake of the Aldrich Ames affair, arguably the worst espionage case
in American history, has set in motion a process which could lead to
the end of the CIA, at least in its present form.
Little noticed amid the rancorous pre-electoral din issuing from
Capitol Hill, the Senate last week launched a bipartisan initiative for
a commission to review the Agency's entire role in the post Cold War
world.
No limits have been placed on its brief. To all intents and purposes,
said The New York Times, a demoralized CIA will be ``a company
undergoing a court-supervised bankruptcy reorganization.''
``Wither The CIA ?'' was a question asked here well before revelation
of the Ames debacle. Hitherto however, the inclination had been to
allow it to be answered primarily by the agency itself.
Now the astoundingly light in-house punishment meted out by Woolsey
seems to have convinced Congress and the Clinton administration that
the CIA is incapable of putting its own house in order.
Last week, the long awaited report by CIA Inspector General Frederick
Hitz -- compiled largely on the basis of what Ames himself told
interrogators during months of questioning after his arrest last Feb.
21 -- laid out the appalling truth.
Between 1985 and 1993, Hitz writes, he caused the loss of ``virtually
all the CIA's human resources'' reporting on the Soviet Union.
He ruined much of its work elsewhere in Eastern Europe, and revealed to
Moscow the identity of scores of CIA staff working under diplomatic and
civilian cover.
The total damage, says Hitz, was ``truly staggering'': 10 agents
executed, 36 neutralized or turned, at least 55 compromised operations,
plus general CIA policy and planning documents of huge value to Soviet
and Russian intelligence.
Equally staggering was the CIA's failure to catch Ames. He was lazy,
frequently drunk, with a long record of ``no enthusiasm, little regard
for the rules, little security consciousness...few good work habits,
few friends and a bad reputation in terms of integrity, dependability
and discretion.''
All this was known, as was a lifestyle far beyond his apparent means.
Yet Ames' supervisors ``cleaned up after him, found words to praise
him'' and promoted him to positions which might have been handpicked by
the KGB.
Woolsey's response has been almost to turn the other cheek. He has
reprimanded only 11 CIA employees, six of them retired. No- one has
been sacked or even demoted. That was ``not my way, not CIA's way and
not the American way,'' said Woolsey. An outraged Congress begs to
differ.
This week, the Senate Intelligence Committee will produce its own
report and recommendations. And whatever it decides, those who favor a
complete revamp of the structure of American intelligence services will
have more grist for their mill.
The Ames disaster may have been unique, but even beforehand the CIA was
reeling from troubles enough: Iran-Contra, its slowness in spotting the
weaknesses of the old Soviet Union, and two lawsuits by former and
present female employees charging discrimination and abuse of women at
what they claim was little more than a hard-drinking Old Boys Club.
Suddenly the longstanding proposals to dismantle the CIA from Senator
Daniel Patrick Moynihan and others, presented well before the Ames
affair came to light, no longer look farfetched.
Under these blueprints, the agency's analytical and research side would
go to the State Department, while the Pentagon would take over its
spying and paramilitary activities. The FBI, meanwhile, would
exclusively handle molehunting.
The FBI indeed is one of the few to emerge with some credit from the
Ames debacle. It first alerted the CIA in the mid-1980s about his
suspicious contacts with Soviet officials.
At the very least big cuts are coming. President Bill Clinton is
committed to take US$7 billion out of the $28 billion annual
intelligence budget by 1998.
Only $3 billion of this is spent on the CIA proper: the lions' share is
believed to go on electronic eavesdropping. But the cost of its
disgrace will be borne across the intelligence community.
