Protestors in new march against immigration bill
Protestors were set to march on the French parliament Tuesday where
debate was due to resume on a controversial immigration bill which
brought tens of thousands on to the streets of Paris over the weekend.
The French National Assembly was due to give a second reading to the
so-called Debre bill -- named after its author Interior Minister
Jean-Louis Debre -- which bids to toughen laws against illegal aliens.
On Saturday up to 100,000 people -- film stars, students, trade
unionists and intellectuals -- took the debate on to the streets of
Paris to demand the bill's total withdrawal.
On Tuesday Gaullist Prime Minister Alain Juppe pleaded with left and
right "to rally around the heritage of the Republic," saying that by
"raising the stakes" the protestors were "playing into the hands of
those who accuse us of laxism and impotence."
Without naming the extreme right National Front, Juppe said in an
opinion piece in the daily Le Monde that the protestors were confusing
legal and illegal immigration and "making the bed of extremism."
The prime minister said that according to opinion polls, a majority of
the French approved the bill as it had been amended.
He appealed for a "republican immigration policy," concluding "Yes to
welcoming hospitality... yes to the right of asylum... yes to regular
immigration... yes to the integration of all those who share our
values... no to illegal immigration which benefits the new
slave-traders of the 20th century."
The government has already climbed down on the most controversial part
of the Debre bill, softening a clause which would oblige private French
citizens lodging immigrants who need a visa to enter France to report
their guests' movements to local authorities.
To many the clause had seemed to be a throwback to occupied France in
World War II when people were encouraged to inform on any neighbours
harbouring Jews.
In Saturday's marches, organisers estimated that 150,000 people turned
out in support in Paris, although police put the figure at only 33,000.
The protest was sparked by a group of French cinema directors who got
up a petition against a clause in the Debre bill requiring them to
report the departure of foreigners invited to work with them.
Actress Emmanuelle Beart, singer-actor Patrick Bruel, film director
Bertrand Tavernier and Danielle Mitterrand, widow of former socialist
president Francois Mitterrand, were among celebrities who took part in
the march.
Left-wing politicians and trade union leaders also joined the march.
The protest caught the opposition Socialist Party on the wrong foot,
with leader Lionel Jospin appearing to hesitate between support and
alienating the anti-immigrant working class vote.
Commentators believe the broad protest movement was sparked by disgust
at the victory of the National Front in a municipal by-election in the
southern town of Vitrolles on February 9.
Debre himself hit out at the marches. "It is not through slogans,
discourse or simply good intentions that we will overcome racism and
xenophobia, but through struggling unremittingly against irregular
immigration," he said.
Meanwhile nine vehicles were torched in Vitrolles on Tuesday in what
appeared to be a protest against racist remarks by the National Front
mayor Catherine Megret.
Megret, who claimed on Monday that her remarks to the German newspaper
Berliner Zeitung had been distorted, was quoted as saying that in
Vitrolles and many other towns, "crime is a synonym for immigration."
The nine cars burned in a working class neighbourhood shortly after
midnight.
Megret's by-election victory on February 9 was marked by two nights of
violence in which vehicles were burned and petrol bombs thrown at shop
windows.
Megret was quoted as saying that blacks are genetically different to
whites and that immigrants should have their benefits cut and that
these be given to French people.
"We are going to withdraw all public funding for immigrants, and give
the money to French people," she said. "You'll see how quickly they
disappear, those who are only here for the money."
