US believes Berenson appeal was fair
The United States said Tuesday it believed US citizen Lori Berenson had
been treated fairly and received due process in her failed appeal of a
20-year prison sentence to Peru's Supreme Court this week.
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Berenson's appeal,
rejected on Monday, had covered all the issues Washington had concerns
about from her initial conviction by a military tribunal in 1996 and
subsequent retrial by a civilian court last year.
"We wanted a more open trial," Boucher told reporters. "We're satisfied
the issue has been raised by her attorney and been looked at."
"We do think that the Peruvian Supreme Court has now looked at all the
issues that were raised by Ms Berenson's defense attorney in the appeal
that the attorney filed on her behalf," he said.
"And we believe that the attorney did ensure that his client received
all the rights and protections that can be afforded under Peruvian
law."
He noted that the 32-year-old Berenson still had an opportunity to
appeal to the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights in Washington
and to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights in San Jose, Costa
Rica.
Boucher declined to comment on what stance, if any, the United States
would take in those proceedings or to discuss the possibility of a
presidential pardon for Berenson.
Lawyers for Berenson, a New York native convicted of collaborating with
the Peruvian rebel group Tupac Amaru, had said they would seek a
presidential pardon for their client following the Supreme Court's
decision Monday.
But Peruvian Justice Minister Fernando Olivera insisted she would get
no special treatment.
"She has to serve her sentence. The law has to apply equally to
everyone. No presidential pardon is under consideration," he said.
The only option left for Berenson is the possibility that she might be
part of a prisoner swap between Peru and the United States, he added.
Berenson faces imprisonment until November 29, 2015 for her association
with the left-wing guerrilla group, which tried to take over the
Peruvian Congress in November 1995.
Also Tuesday, her lawyer Jose Sandoval said the 32-year-old joined a
widespread hunger-strike protest against the country's anti-terrorist
laws, involving some 700 prisoners at 15 different institutions.
The protest has been going for more than a week, according to Sandoval.
