HK Publishes Elector Registration Regulation 
Hong Kong's Electoral Affairs Committee (EAC) today gazetted a
regulation making arrangements for the registration of electors for
geographical constituencies for the 1998 Legislative Council election.
The regulation is aimed at setting out the procedure for the
preparation of registration of electors, EAC Chairman Justice Woo
Kwok-hing told a press conference today.
To ensure that the registration system works and to guard against
misuse of the information obtained by the Electoral Registration
Officer for non-election purposes, the regulation makes it an offense
for any person to give a false statement in relation to voter
registration or make others do the same.
Penalties for these offenses include disqualification from being
registered as an elector and voting at an election and also from being
nominated as a candidate.
One will be disqualified as a candidate if he obtains an extract of a
register and use it for a purpose other than those related to the
election or imparts its contents to another person or fails to furnish
information in response to a requirement within the specified period.
The regulation will be tabled at the Provisional Legislative Council
(PLC) for negative vetting on November 5 and come into effect on the
same day if approved.
Woo said this is to enable elector registration to start immediately on
the same day so that eligible persons may have more time to register.
He said the registration period will last until January 16, 1998, and
he urged the public to register as electors and vote in the legislative
election.
Under the Basic Law, all permanent residents of the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region (SAR) of China, who have reached the age of 18,
have the right to vote and the right to stand for election.
Meanwhile, the EAC today submitted to SAR Chief Executive Tung Chee Hwa
a report on its final recommendation on the delineation of geographical
constituency boundaries for the Legislative Council election.
The final recommendations have been drawn up after taking into
consideration all views expressed by the public on the EAC's
provisional recommendations during a two-week public consultation
between October 11 and 24.
"The decision of the chief executive will be gazetted in the form of an
order, which will be tabled in the PLC. A copy of the EAC's report will
also be tabled in the PLC in accordance with the law," a government
spokesman said.
He added that the Financial Committee today approved a supplementary
provision of 167.52 million HK dollars (23.93 million U.S. dollars) to
cover expenditure on various preparatory work for the legislative
election, which includes voter registration and related tasks for the
compilation of the electoral roll.
The overall financial requirement for the election is about 500 million
HK dollars (64.1 million U.S. dollars), the spokesman said.
