US threatens to veto UN force in Bosnia over international criminal court
The United States threatened Thursday to veto a renewal of the UN force in
Bosnia unless the Security Council meets its demand to exempt peacekeepers
from the new International Criminal Court.
"A veto is definitely an option if the issue is not resolved," the US
ambassador to the United Nations, John Negroponte, told reporters as he
emerged from two hours of consultations behind closed doors.
The mandate of the UN police-training mission in Bosnia (UNMIBH)
expires at midnight Sunday (0400 GMT Monday), the precise moment the
ICC comes into being, and Negroponte said the United States wanted the
question settled by then.
"Unlike last week, we are not prepared to consider just another
technical rollover, to extend the Bosnia mandate without any kind of
resolution of this question," he said.
Unable to reach a compromise, the 15-member council decided Friday to
extend UNMIBH for nine days instead of the usual six months so as to
buy itself time for reflection.
Unlike the 19,000-strong NATO-led Stabilization Force in Bosnia (SFOR),
the United Nations force of 1,536 police officers, three military and
1,747 civilian staff cannot continue to exist without a Security
Council mandate.
Negroponte on Thursday proposed an amendment to UNMIBH's mandate to
give all current and former members of the mission "immunity from
arrest, detention and prosecution" by the ICC. The text was distributed
to reporters.
Western European diplomats said the wording was unacceptable because it
undermined the court's statute and its aims.
France's ambassador to the United Nations, Jean-David Levitte,
suggested alternative wording which would have the effect of deferring
action by the ICC against the Bosnia mission for a year.
Council consultations were scheduled to resume on Friday morning.
A diplomat from a non-aligned country council member said the United
States had no hope of mustering the nine votes necessary to adopt a
resolution.
"The US is isolated on this, and they know they are isolated," he said,
adding that calls for immunity "will not fly" with other council
members.
All 15 European Union countries and 54 other states have ratified the
statute under which the court, to be set up in The Hague, will try
cases of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.
The administration of President George W. Bush is openly hostile to the
ICC, and on May 6 it withdrew the United States signature from the
ICC's founding statute.
Supporters of the court, including UN Secretary General Kofi Annan,
have noted that the statute includes safeguards against frivolous or
politically-motivated prosecutions.
One such safeguard, Article 16, says: "No investigation or prosecution
may be commenced or proceeded with under this statute for a period of
12 months after the Security Council ... has requested the Court to
that effect."
Levitte's proposal, also distributed to reporters, was to automatically
invoke Article 16 for UNMIBH.
Human Rights Watch accused the United States on Thursday of holding
UNMIBH hostage.
"When you think what the people of Bosnia have endured over the past
decade, it is shameful to see US government policy shrink to this,"
Richard Dicker, a lawyer with the New York-based human rights body,
told a news conference here.
Dicker called on all states that have ratified or signed the statute to
"make clear that this shall not pass, that the Security Council cannot
be instigated at the behest of any one government to amend a
multilateral treaty."
In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said "the
United States believes very seriously in the mission, but also believes
very seriously we can't allow that mission to be compromised by the
International Criminal Court."
Boucher indicated that the final decision would be taken at a higher
level than UN ambassadors.
Secretary of State Colin Powell "has been in conversations with a
number of foreign ministers on this issue," he said.
