U.N. Security Council Renews Iraq Oil-for-Food Plan 
The United Nations Security Council decided late Tuesday to renew the
U.N. oil-for- food program for Iraq for another period of six months
beginning on December 6, 2000.
In a resolution unanimously adopted, the Security Council allowed Iraq
to draw 600 million U.S. dollars from its oil revenues to import spare
parts and equipment for its dilapidated oil industry.
The Security Council expressed its readiness to consider, in the light
of the cooperation of Iraq in implementing all the U.N. resolutions,
allowing a sum of 15 million dollars to be used by Iraq to pay the
arrears it owes the United Nations.
The Security Council urged U.N. sanctions committee on Iraq to review
Iraq's applications for importing humanitarian goods in an expeditious
manner, to decrease the level of applications on hold and to continue
to improve the approval process of applications.
The council requested the U.N. secretary-general to make the necessary
arrangement, subject to its approval, to allow funds up to 600 million
euros, the equivalent of about 525 million dollars, to be used for the
cost of installation and maintenance, including training services, of
the equipment and spare parts for Iraq's oil industry.
The council also requested the U.N. secretary-general to prepare a
report before March 31, 2001 for the sanctions committee containing
proposals for the use of additional export routes for Iraq's petroleum
and petroleum products.
The current phase of the oil-for-food program expires at midnight of
December 5.
The oil-for-food program, which began in late 1996, allows Iraq to sell
oil under U.N. supervision to buy food, medicine, oil spare parts and a
host of other goods in an effort to ease the impact of the U.N.
sanctions.
The United Nations imposed stringent sanctions on Iraq after its
invasion of Kuwait in 1990. The sanctions cannot be lifted until Iraq
is clarified to be free from weapons of mass destruction.
Iraq halted oil exports Friday after it failed to get an agreement on
the pricing formula of oil exports for December. Iraq last week
proposed the lower prices to compensate buyers of its oil for a
surcharge of 50 U.S. cents a barrel and wanted the funds paid directly
into its account not controlled by the United Nations.
The United Nations sanctions committee on Iraq rejected Iraq's
proposal, saying that it did not reflect a fair market value. It also
asked Iraq to propose a new and fair pricing formula for its
consideration.
