Taiwan probing foreign banks for illegal forex transfer: report 
The authorities are probing foreign banks here suspected of illegally
helping local residents squirrel away money abroad, worsening Taiwan's
capital flight during its crisis with China, a report Thursday said.
Investigators have amassed evidence that some foreign banks have let
local residents open an account in their Taiwan branches in exchange
for depositing money for them in branches overseas, the Commercial
Times said.
The probe, initiated by the foreign ministry, is being led by the
Investigation Bureau, an agency of the justice ministry, it said. The
report did not identify the suspected banks or their home country.
Under Taiwan's Banking Act, anyone who illegally collects or channels
money from the public is liable to a sentence of up to seven years'
jail and a fine of three million Taiwan dollars (109,091 US).
Among other suspected activities by foreign banks in Taiwan has been
profiteering from the run on the Taiwan dollar, the report added.
Banks have been buying the greenback from the central bank at a rate of
27.50 Taiwan dollars and selling it to local residents at 28.00
dollars, it said.
Local demand for the US dollar has surged since China launched a series
of military exercises against Taiwan, prompting the central bank to
sell billions of greenbacks in the local currency market to defend the
Taiwan dollar.
According to statistics compiled by the central bank, Taiwan registered
a net capital outflow of 12 billion US dollars in the second half of
1995 amid escalating tensions across the Taiwan Strait.
Separately, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) is stepping up an
investigation into huge disposals of stock by board directors and major
shareholders of some listed firms, the Commercial Times said.
The powerful securities watchdog will "adopt a tough attitude" towards
speculative share dumping, it said.
The SEC previously achieved its goal of supporting the bourse by
adopting "moral suasion," persuasion through influence, rather than
coercion.
Tsai Mao-hsing, convenor of a seven-member panel overseeing a
government-led bourse stabilisation fund, said that some stock players
heavily discharged shares at a time when the fund bought stocks.
The month-old 200-billion-Taiwan-dollar stabilization fund, expected to
expand to 350 billion dollars soon, has bought some 40 billion dollars'
worth of shares to boost the battered market.
