Chargers Discount Predictions of Super Bowl Blowout 
The San Diego Chargers discount predictions of a Super Bowl blowout.
They expect that San Francisco will be able to stay close.
The Chargers are saying they plan to win. Oddsmakers, on the other
hand, say the 49ers will fleece, flatten, trounce, trample, thrash,
bash, blitz, berate, deflate, confuse, abuse and defuse the Chargers.
San Francisco is favored by 19 points -- the largest point spread in
Super Bowl history. That means a final score of 26-7. Or 39-20. Or
50-31.
The Chargers may be the only people in America who think they can win.
``According to the national news, we're not supposed to be here,'' San
Diego linebacker Junior Seau said.
``All it does is show you're not respected, and you're not to the level
where you should be respected yet. To get that, you have to do
something rare. That's to win the Super Bowl.''
It should be noted that the previous largest Super Bowl point spread
was 18 points, and in that game, the underdogs won. Quarterback Joe
Namath and the New York Jets pulled off an upset he guaranteed, beating
Baltimore 16-7 in 1969 at Miami.
With the lack of news, media questions keep coming back to one subject
-- the unprecedented point spread.
``I don't like it,'' 49ers coach George Seifert said. ``It demonstrates
disrespect for San Diego. There must be something special about them,
or they wouldn't be here.''
``To me, it wouldn't be an upset if we come out and win the game,''
Chargers running back Natrone Means said. ``We're capable of winning.''
But don't bet on it. All signs point in favor of the 49ers.
They led the National Football League in scoring and eliminated
two-time defending league champion Dallas to reach the Super Bowl for
the fifth time since 1982. The Chargers, picked by some to finish last
in the AFC West, struggled after a 6-0 start and needed desperate
rallies in both playoff games to earn their first Super Bowl berth.
``The 49ers have had a lot more success than we've had in the past,''
San Diego quarterback Stan Humphries said. ``But we're both here now,
and it all comes down to Sunday.''
The Chargers are bucking not only 49ers tradition, but National
Football Conference tradition as well. The conference has won 10
consecutive Super Bowls.
At this point, it's fair to wonder whether an AFC team could beat Tampa
Bay in the Super Bowl. Recent NFC victories have been by such margins
as 45, 36, 35, 32 and 22 points.
And none of those teams was favored by 19.
``It's not really a slam on the talent we have,'' San Diego linebacker
David Griggs said with a shrug. ``It's an indication of what the AFC
has done the last 10 years. I think the media is looking at the AFC as
a 19-point underdog, and not looking at the Chargers as 19-point
underdogs.
``We're not saying it should be even up. We're underdogs. But they
can't take the 19-point spread, take the trophy and go home. They've
got to beat us.''
