Fall of Kabul sparks concern and caution across Afghan borders 
The capture of the Afghanistan capital by the fundamentalist Taliban
militia sparked a wave of concern in neighbouring nations Friday.
While India said it would take careful stock of the situation, both
Russia and Iran expressed their worry after the Islamic Taliban, led by
Mullah Muhammed Omar, set up an interim government after marching into
Kabul.
Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, while making no mention
of the fall of the city or the immediate hanging of Afghanistan's
former communist president Najibullah, regretted that Afghan factions
"choose to go the way of war."
Rafsanjani, whose government deeply distrusts the Taliban, added: "We
have repeatedly advised them that war is not the right way to solve
their problems but unfortunately they don't let go.
"God willing, they will one day come to their senses."
He added: "The situation in Afghanistan has turned into a complicated
and unsolvable issue in the region and we will for years to come
witness the homelessness and misery of the people there. This is a
disaster and we are really sorry."
The ultra-conservative Sunni Moslem Taliban, which now controls two
thirds of the country after government forces headed north out of
Kabul, are looked upon with suspicion by predominantly Shiite Moslem
Iran.
Iranian officials have repeatedly accused the Taliban local government
in Afghanistan's Herat province of facilitating drug trafficking into
Iran.
It had recognized the previous Kabul government and launched an intense
diplomatic drive to bring the various Afghan factions together.
A Russian foreign ministry statement, meanwhile, said the Taliban
seizure of Kabul "only aggravates the crisis into which Afghanistan has
been plunged through internal armed conflict.
"Russia notes with alarm the danger that this conflict poses to the
international community and its destabilising effect on the situation
in the region."
It called for a ceasefire and a halt to all outside interference,
interpreted as a reference to alleged Pakistani backing for the
Taliban.
"Russia urges the United Nations to face up to the Afghan conflict and
play an effective role as a key impartial mediator."
Indian foreign secretary Salman Haider, however, took a more cautious
line, saying: "We have to see what shape Afghanistan takes. We are in
no position to evaluate the situation. We don't have any independent
source of information.
