Saddam executed 122 army officers: opposition by Hassan Jouini 
The Iraqi opposition accused President Saddam Hussein Tuesday of
executing dozens of army officers at a time when Baghdad is trying to
win back its place in the international community through its
oil-for-food deal with the United Nations.
The Iraqi National Accord, based in Jordan, said 122 senior Iraqi army
officers accused of plotting against Saddam were executed between
August 1 and 3.
Meanwhile, the Supreme Assembly of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq
(SAIRI) said 10 Iraqi officers from the elite Republican Guards had
been executed "in the last few days" for their part in a failed coup
attempt in July.
The Tehran-based Shiite Moslem opposition group said Saddam's son Uday
"supervised" the execution of the officers who included two generals,
two colonels and two commanders.
SAIRI announced last month that a coup backed by the United States and
Jordan was thwarted in Baghdad, a claim denied by Amman.
Reports of repression, firing squads and the arrest of soldiers have
been circulating in opposition circles for more than a month, but there
has been no official comment from Baghdad which generally remains
tight-lipped on such matters.
A first bid to overthrow Saddam took place on June 27 at Al-Rashid air
base where pilots had planned to bomb the presidential palace,
opposition groups said.
A second coup attempt took place on July 20 at Habbaniye, west of
Baghdad, but the plot was uncovered and its leader Major Fawzi Karim
al-Hamdani arrested, according to the Iraqi National Accord.
Meanwhile the Iraqi National Congress, an opposition coalition, said on
July 11 that at least 120 army officers had been arrested for plotting
against the regime. Dozens have since been executed on Saddam's orders,
it said.
An Iraqi National Accord official said Wednesday that the most senior
of the 122 executed officers for plotting against Saddam was General
Abdel Motlek al-Juburi, from the northern town of Mosul, a "hero" of
the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq war.
General Juburi was first arrested by the authorities in 1991, but then
released under an amnesty in July 1995 before being picked up again
last month as part of a sweep within the ranks of the Iraqi armed
forces, the official said.
