Dynamic duo defy Kiwis 
England all but ensured victory in the three-match series on Friday,
thanks to dynamic duo Darren Gough and Philip DeFreitas.
Test debutant Gough and born-again all-rounder DeFreitas combined to
shatter New Zealand's dreams with first bat and then ball on the second
day of the third Test at Old Trafford.
After rescuing England from a second batting slump, helping to steer
them to a respectable 382 all out at tea, the pair took two wickets
each to leave the Kiwis rocking at 84-4 at the close.
With the hosts already 1-0 up after the first two Tests, only a
spectacular turn-around can prevent Mike Atherton from securing his
first series victory as captain.
Atherton, newly reappointed to lead his country in the forthcoming
series against South Africa, had played a major part in establishing a
position of strength, even though he failed to convert his first day 96
into a really substantial century.
But his early morning departure for 111 merely cleared the stage for
DeFreitas and Gough.
Craig White had gone without adding to his overnight 42, snicking
Michael Owens low to third slip.
Then the captain, having toiled for six and a half hours, lost a
debatable lbw decision to Dion Nash.
And when Nash removed Steve Rhodes via a gloved catch to the keeper,
England were a precarious 235 for seven.
But then Gough and DeFreitas produced two wonderfully entertaining
half-centuries, and their eighth-wicket stand of 130 knocked the
stuffing out of the Kiwis.
DeFreitas' 69 included eight fours before he played on against Owens,
while Gough found the boundary ten times with his 65, only to
eventually drive Chris Pringle to substitute Heath Davis at extra
cover.
Although Angus Fraser could not prolong the splendidly spirited
resistence for long, England's total was comfortingly high after
Thursday's low of 104 for four.
It looked positively mountainous by the time Gough and DeFreitas had
spectacularly joined forces again.
Gough's fifth ball in Test cricket reared up toward's Mark Greatbatch's
body.
He succeeded in getting his injured left thumb, fractured while
fielding, out of the way but gloved right-handed to Hick at second
slip.
DeFreitas, coming on as first change, struck even sooner with Ken
Rutherford driving the paceman's opening delivery to mid-off, where
Graham Gooch held his 100th Test catch at the third attempt.
Gough returned to have Stephen Fleming taken low down behind the stumps
and then DeFreitas made sure honours finished even when Bryan Young
snicked an attempted square drive into Rhodes' waiting gloves.
Only Martin Crowe, suffering badly from flu, was left standing between
England and a decisive first innings lead.
