Nigeria to Boost Farm Produce to Solve Food Crisis: President
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo has reiterated his administration's
resolve to pay greater attention to agriculture because Nigerians have been
living with persistent rise in the food price in the past several months,
reported a radio program monitored here on Saturday.
Obasanjo, who made the remarks on the monthly radio program of "The
President Explains", noted that agriculture is "renewable" unlike oil,
gas and other resources.
"Agriculture must be given a pride of place and we must have consistent
policies to boost agricultural production and local manufacturing,"
Obasanjo said.
He pointed out that some countries that have no natural resources have
done better than Nigeria because they have good managers, skills and
technology.
"This is a country that should be flowing with milk and honey but we
are poor today because we have mismanaged our resources. One of the
things we did in the past was to throw money at our problems rather
than working out real solutions," the president said.
He called on his countrymen to join hands to make the country a better
place politically, economically and socially.
Earlier on Wednesday, the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce,
Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), whose members are major
stakeholders in the agricultural sector, urged the government to
allocate 10 percent of the 2002 budget to agriculture in order to
effectively combat the food crisis on a long term basis.
The United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization estimated that in
order to reduce the negative affection imposed by the long- term
negligence of the agricultural sector, the Nigerian government should
be progressively moved toward 25 percent of the budget by 2010.
The Nigerian government has repeatedly reiterated its commitment to
tackling the food crisis in the most populous African country. Earlier
last month, President Olusegun Obasanjo vowed that the government is
committed to making agriculture a dominant sector of the national
economy once again.
The government will do everything possible to help farmers, including
cultivating certain tree crops under the subsidizing agricultural
program, he said.
On the other hand, the government has set up a National Economic
Council Committee on food production to find ways of solving the
problem of food shortage in the country.
Meanwhile, the Nigerian Senate unanimously adopted a motion for seeking
to set 100 billion naira (870 million U.S. dollars) in an agricultural
development fund in a bid to check the food crisis in the country.
Agriculture was widely practised in Nigeria during the 1950s and the
1960s, when about 90 percent of the West African country's population
was involved in agriculture.
However, when oil was discovered and being exploited and petro- dollar
started flowing into the nation, many young and energetic people
abandoned the farms, heading for oil-related jobs.
The prosperity of oil economy stimulated a massive rural to urban drift
or migration at the expense of national food security. Beginning from
the early 1980s, Nigeria has been degenerating into a food-importing
nation from a net food-exporting nation.
A recent World Bank report has warned that Nigeria is approaching
famine except the west African country takes the appropriate measures.
Because of drought in most parts of this country, Nigeria's food
security has worsened since late last year.
