Major government delays electoral battle in cautious budget
Britain's Tory government has sought to reassure the financial markets
with its modest 1996-97 budget, but in the process has delayed the
chance to produce an election winner for the party.
Chancellor Kenneth Clarke's announcement of tax cuts of some 3.25
billion pounds (five billion dollars) Tuesday disappointed many
right-wing Conservative MP's, who had hoped for much larger giveaways
to woo back the British electorate.
John Redwood, the right-winger who challenged Prime Minister John Major
for the Conservative party leadership in the summer, said: "I would
have liked five billion pounds off taxes".
Redwood and others from the party's populist wing had argued that the
Tories' only chance of avoiding certain defeat in the next general
elections, which must be held by early 1997 at the latest, was to hand
voters a massive tax present.
Now, they are lamenting that the party has no hope of overcoming the
huge 30-point lead held by the Labour opposition party, which is widely
tipped by commentators to form the next government.
The right-wing Sun tabloid newspaper, Britain's largest-circulation
daily, spoke for them when it splashed the words: "You Ken Not Be
Serious" across its front page, branding the one percent cut in income
tax as "miserly".
In more measured words, one senior Conservative told The Times
broadsheet that the budget "will win us nothing at all...we had better
pray that he (Clarke) can do more next year".
Hopes are now pinned on the budget presentation in November 1996, the
final chance for the Tories to produce vote-winning measures.
But Clarke, who is a moderate figure within the Conservative party, has
stressed repeatedly that he will not sacrifice Britain's finances for
political reasons.
In a television interview early Wednesday, he defended his caution: "My
job as Conservative chancellor is to run the economy and keep this
economy growing faster than anybody else's and that is what we will
do".
Clarke therefore made sure to balance the tax cuts with equivalent
spending cuts, focused mainly on public sector capital projects and
public administration costs.
And he also found the cash to raise politically sensitive budgets,
giving health and education extra funds and promising to put more
policemen on the streets.
But voters, which under the last three years of Conservative rule have
had billions of pounds added to their tax bills to pay for the effects
of the recession in the early 1990's, are likely to be distinctly
unimpressed by the tax cutting package.
Labour leader Tony Blair swept aside Clarke's statement that the tax
cuts will give a typical married couple with two children and one
wage-earner on average earnings an extra 450 pounds (695 dollars) a
year.
The budget had "flopped", he said, because "people realise they are
still worse off".
"People don't trust the Tories on tax anymore", Blair charged.
The financial markets, meanwhile, did not welcome the budget with open
arms either, worried about the worse projection revealed by Clarke for
the government deficit in 1995-96.
"The budget was too tight to win the election and too loose to impress
the markets', an economist at a major US bank said.
But the City is hoping that the budget will be followed soon by a cut
in interest rates, which at 6.75 percent since February, have been
blamed for stifling economic growth.
And this might do more to secure the elusive "feel-good" factor among
the British population than the much-trumpeted budget.
