Prosecutors want ex-premiers Berlusconi, Craxi in the dock
Italian prosecutors demanded on Wednesday that former prime ministers
Silvio Berlusconi and Bettino Craxi be tried for illegal financing of
political parties, judicial officials said.
Berlusconi, who is leader of one of Italy's leading rightwing parties
Forza Italia, has said he would withdraw from political life if it were
proved he had been lying when he claimed he had played no part in the
alleged transactions.
The officials said the request to an examining magistrate here followed
an investigation into foreign bank accounts of the Socialist Party
(PSI) which allegedly received non-authorised payments to then party
chief Craxi.
Some of the payments allegedly came from Berlusconi's company
Fininvest. Craxi, who was a close friend of Berlusconi and was prime
minister between 1983 and 1987, has been in self-imposed exile for more
than two years in Tunisia.
Craxi was sentenced in absentia to four years in prison in October on
corruption charges.
The request, which also applies to another 19 people, who are alleged
associates of Berlusconi and Craxi, comes from the pool of Milan "Clean
Hands" prosecutors which has been investigating corruption in Italian
political life, and will be considered by a preliminary hearing.
Speaking in Rome at the end of November, Berlusconi, said: "I always
made a very clear distinction between family, business and politics.
"I am ready to withdraw from politics if evidence is found to the
contrary, and I defy anyone to prove that I could have industrial,
commercial or financial activities with the political parties, notably
with the Socialist party and its secretary," he said.
On November 23, the Milan court also issued an arrest warrant against
Giorgio Vanoni, in charge of external relations at Fininvest.
Vanoni, who is suspected of handing some 10 billion lire (6.2 million
dollars) to Bettino Craxi in 1991, gave himself up to the police
earlier this year.
Berlusconi has always maintained that the 10 billion lire payment was
totally above board and was to cover the cinema and television rights
to a company belonging to Tunisian producer Tarek Ben Hammar, who lives
in France.
Ben Hammar supported Berlusconi's version of events, and specified that
he had asked Fininvest to pay the money into the bank account of an
Arab lawyer to whom he owed money. He claimed he knew nothing about the
ultimate destination of the payment.
Berlusconi, 59, who was prime minister from May 1994 until January last
year, is already being tried for corruption and is the target of
several other investigations.
Together with his brother Paolo, Fininvest finance director Salvatore
Sciascia, and seven other people, Berlusconi is accused of authorising
the illegal payment of some 380 million lire (nearly 240,000 dollars)
to tax inspectors between 1989 and early 1994, to avoid tax
inspections.
The trial on these charges opened on January 16.
