Military accord nears as peace talks resume
Russian and Chechen negotiators resumed peace talks Saturday with both
sides saying a military accord aimed at ending the conflict in Chechnya
would be signed later in the day.
An exchange of prisoners also looked nearer, but the key issue of
Chechnya's political future as an independent republic or a part of the
Russian Federation appeared as far away as ever with no sign of an
imminent settlement.
Chechen chief negotiator Usman Imayev said a military accord would be
"signed later today" as he arrived at the offices in Grozny of the
Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which is
chairing the talks.
Russian negotiators also said they expected an agreement to be signed
during the day.
Negotiations had been adjourned for three days because of continued
disputes over sovereignty, but both sides appeared to have put that to
one side for the moment.
Arkady Volsky, one of the chief Russian negotiators, said earlier that
the military issues would be at the centre of Saturday's meeting.
The talks started more than an hour late after the Chechen delegation
said they were held up at a Russian army checkpoint, Imayev explained.
"We were held at a Russian post as we returned from the mountains where
we talked with (separatist leader Dzhokhar) Dudayev and Chechen
commanders on the ground," he added.
Both sides signed a military protocol on June 22 agreeing a separation
of forces, a gradual retreat of Russian troops, an exchange of
prisoners and an indefinite ceasefire, but the agreement has yet to be
finalised in a formal accord.
Vladimir Ivanov, Russian delegate with responsibility for prisoners,
said on arrival he had lists of Chechens held in Russian camps in the
Caucasus towns of Pyatigorsk, Stavropol and Krasnodar and would hand
them to the Chechens.
Chechen negotiators had earlier refused to hand over full lists of
Russians held by their fighters, complaining the Russians were merely
proposing to give them incomplete lists of civilians held in Grozny and
Mozdok, their rear base, in exchange.
"The exchange of prisoners should now take place very quickly," Ivanov
said.
Russian troops stormed into Chechnya on December 11 to quell a
three-year secessionist movement. Since then between 15,000 and 30,000
people have died, according to various government and private
estimates.
Meanwhile Chechen separatist fighters in the mountain base of
Roshny-Shu claimed that Dudayev's representative in Moscow, Khama
Kurbanov, had been arrested inside Chechnya.
They said his driver told them his car was stopped at a Russian
checkpoint where Kurbanov was ordered out and taken away by helicopter.
Kurbanov had previously been arrested when a Chechen commando unit
seized 1,500 hostages in the southern Russian town of Budennovsk in
mid-June, but he was released on Monday without being charged.
In Moscow the Russian Constitutional Court said it would issue its
ruling Monday on the legality of two decrees by Russian President Boris
Yeltsin and a government resolution which led to the intervention in
Chechnya.
It was asked for a ruling by both chambers of parliament which said a
proposal to intervene militarily in the republic should have been
decided by the legislature.
The head of Chechnya's Moscow-installed government called for Russian
troops to be withdrawn from Grozny because of repeated incidents of
rape and looting, Interfax news agency reported.
Salambek Khadzhyev said 2,000 of the 40,000 soldiers in the republic
were "criminals or people who aren't psychologically normal" who did
nothing but "steal, loot, kidnap people and rape women."
The Russian army said two soldiers were killed and 12 injured in 12
separate attacks by Chechen fighters overnight to Saturday, Interfax
reported.
