France's matches on their way to the Euro 96 semi-final against Czech
Republic at Old Trafford on Wednesday
GROUP B
Romania v France (won 1-0)
A Christophe Dugarry header shot France to the top of group B with a
workmanlike win.
Dugarry struck after only 24 minutes to give France, one of the
pre-tournament favourites to take the championship, the perfect start.
It was France's first victory in the finals of a European championship
since winning the title on home soil 12 years ago against Spain.
France v Spain (drew 1-1)
Spain's Jose Luiz Caminero snatched a dramatic equaliser five minutes
from time to deny France almost certain qualification at the top of the
group after just two matches.
Spain's saviour was Caminero, lurking in the box, who got on the end of
a Javier Manjarin cross from the right to hit it past Bernard Lama.
Earlier, Youri Djorkaeff ran onto a ball from Christian Karembeu just
after the break before driving the ball hard and low past Andoni
Zubizarreta.
France v Bulgaria (won 3-1)
Laurent Blanc, a Luboslav Penev own goal and a late strike from Patrice
Loko was enough for France to oust Bulgaria 3-1 and earn top spot in
group B.
But the match ended on a sour note when Bulgaria's goalscorer Hristo
Stoichkov was accused of making racist remarks to French players.
Defender Blanc headed home a Youri Djorkaeff corner from the right to
put France firmly on course after 20 minutes. But a second half
catastrophic header from Penev to put the ball in his own net gave
France a further goal in the second half. Though Stoichkov pulled one
back, Loko sealed France's minute with just seconds to go.
QUARTER-FINALS
France v Holland (won 5-4 on penalties after 0-0 draw)
France's team of fledgling stars came of age here when they overcame
Holland, the former rulers of European football, to march into the
semi-finals.
Bernard Lama made a penalty shootout save from controversial Clarence
Seedorf to send the Dutch out of the championship. It was a
disappointing finish for Seedorf who had been involved in a bitter
battle of words throughout the championship with coach Guus Hiddink.
Laurent Blanc hit the decisive penalty.
mo96251527
