Software Makers to Put More Creative Tools Out for Consumers
The personal computer industry will soon be selling programs that let
people express themselves with photos and music in ways that rival
Hollywood.
And many companies are also making it easier for people to produce
documents that can be viewed electronically on the Internet, the global
conglomeration of computer networks.
Of several dozen products previewed or announced at Demo '95, a trade
conference that recalls the spirit if not the setting of the PC
industry's early days, most are designed to move people beyond
text-only documents and paper-only distribution.
For instance, Storm Software is moving from professional graphics
programs into the consumer market with EasyPhoto, a dlrs 50 program
that lets a person manipulate photos stored in a computer, such as
re-sizing or polishing them up. For dlrs 250, the company will sell the
software with a scanning device that can be used to transfer paper
images to computer.
``That allows instant access to those photos they already have'' said
Kurt Schwenk, sales manager for Storm.
A new program from Delrina Corp., called Echo Lake, is designed to
encourage people to preserve family and personal histories with
writings that can be easily supplemented by photos, sound and video
recordings. It will go on sale in the spring.
Several companies, notably Apple Computer Inc. and Intel Corp., showed
advances in three-dimensional imaging that will soon affordably give
home computers the power of sophisticated workstations used by
engineering firms and Hollywood studios.
Large firms such as Novell Word Perfect and Quarterdeck and smaller
ones like SkiSoft Inc. and Ubique demonstrated new programs that make
it simple to create products for the World Wide Web. The Web is one of
the most popular pathways to the Internet and is growing quickly as
businesses and individuals discover the power of combining multimedia
documents that can include text, pictures, video and sound, with
Internet access.
The Demo show stands out because its host, PC Letter editor David
Coursey, invites makers of creative products to display them in the
informal setting of a golf resort.
Free of the noise and crowds of mega-conventions like the Comdex
computer convention or the Consumer Electronics Show, the 800 people
attending Demo have time to absorb the breadth of creativity in their
industry.
Huge firms like Microsoft and IBM get the same amount of display space
and time on stage as one like Architext, six guys two years out of
Stanford University who created powerful software for searching the
Internet.
And some demonstrations occur in debate-like settings, with companies
required to use their competitors' product to show what it lacks and
why theirs is better.
