Middle East Business Briefs 
The following are business briefs from Middle East countries:
ANKARA -- Turkish pro-Islamic Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan said
that his coalition government was planning to raise 40 billion U.S.
dollars from privatizations over the next five years, local press
reported today.
Erbakan said Friday when visiting Singapore that "the privatization law
of 1994 is one of the most important tools for foreign capital
investments to arrive in Turkey. Forty billion dollars are targeted
from privatizations in the next five years."
CAIRO -- The German-Arab Chamber of Commerce will organize in September
a conference in the German city of Berlin to draw 200 German companies
wishing to take part in the Cairo Economic Summit Conference in
November.
Peter Geofrisch, managing Director of the Chamber, said that the
conference aimed to clarify the atmosphere and opportunities for
investment in Egypt to German companies prior to the holding of the
Cairo summit, the Arabic-language newspaper Al Ahram reported today.
He said that the conference would discuss German and Egyptian proposals
for participation in the Cairo summit, adding that a number of
bilateral meetings would be organized between Egyptian and German
businessmen wishing to establish joint ventures.
CAIRO -- Some 16,000 Egyptians, who lost money as a result of the Gulf
War, have been declared eligible for compensations by the Geneva-based
United Nations Compensations Commission (UNCC), according to the latest
issue of the English-language Al-Ahram weekly.
At a recent meeting, the UNCC governing council approved 64,000
compensation claims, amounting to roughly 323 million U.S. dollars.
Funding for these claims will be made available under the U.N. Security
Council Resolution 986, also known as the oil-for-food deal, which
allows Iraq to sell 2 billion dollars worth of oil every six months to
buy food and medicine for the Iraqi people.
CAIRO -- The Suez Office for Investors Service in Egypt agreed Friday
on the allocation of necessary plots of lands for 24 investment
projects for the development of Suez Gulf.
The projects, which will cost up to 23 billion Egyptian pounds (about
675 million U.S. dollars), include a petroleum refinery and a
petrochemical plant, a petroleum-distract fertilizer plant, an iron and
steel plant and some oil plants.
