As they settled into chairs in a dingy room on the city's eastern
outskirts, the leader pounded on the table and brought the group to
order with words that remain extraordinary in this country.
``My name is Vera,'' she said, ``and I am an alcoholic.''
More than half a century after being founded in the United States and
seven years after its tentative introduction here, Alcoholics Anonymous
is slowly taking root in Russia, a country whose alcohol problem is
seen by health experts as among the worst in the world.
``The state doesn't support us, and there are still very few doctors
who work with us,'' said Vera, who spoke about her involvement in the
group on the condition that only her first name be used. ``There's
still relatively little information available even among specialists
about alcoholism. But we can provide what official treatments never
have, which is to help alcoholics learn to live as healthy people.''
When the first group was formed here in 1987, a newspaper article
suggested it was a CIA front. The paranoia has faded, and there are now
70 AA groups meeting regularly across Russia and Ukraine, the
movement's organizers said. But it is still very much a novelty in
Russia.
Mikhail Gorbachev, the nation's best-known teetotaler, ran a temperance
campaign while he was leader of the Soviet Union. It failed.
Recent tax increases on vodka have had little effect but to drive
drinkers to moonshine, chemicals and any other substances containing
alcohol, causing the rate of death from alcohol poisoning to double in
the last two years.
Traditional treatment for alcoholism has been the police drunk tank or
medical ``cures'' of dubious value. Public debate about the drinking
habits of President Boris Yeltsin has given the issue increased
visibility -- ``Your fondness for liquor is a secret only to
yourself,'' one newspaper columnist wrote this week in an open letter
to Yeltsin -- but counselors said that even private acknowledgment of
alcoholism, much less a public pronouncement, remains anathema to most
Russians.
Nonetheless, on this night, the cross-section of Muscovites attending
the open AA meeting in the basement of an apartment building in the
Novogireyevo neighborhood welcomed one another warmly and, one by one,
gave their first names and identified themselves as alcoholics.
The group's 35 members ranged from teen-age girls to retired men, from
entrepreneurs in sharp clothes to down-and-outers. Some said they had
been sent by clinics. Others said they had heard of AA on the radio or
in newspaper articles. Some said they were sober. Some were clearly
drunk.
Sasha said he had been having a bad day and provoked howls of
sympathetic laughter when he said it had been made much worse by the
recent plunge in the value of the ruble. Andrei talked about having
been invited out by some old school friends, and of his relief at not
being able to go, since they never would have understood his desire not
to drink.
Nikolai, swaying, reeking of alcohol and with an open cut on his
forehead, stood up and boasted that he had been sober for two months.
The group hooted and told him to sit down.
Igor said that his sister and brother-in-law had asked him to leave the
room they were providing him, and that he feared ending up sleeping on
the street again in the rain and the mud.
``I feel I need a drink,'' he said. ``I want a drink. But coming here I
feel much better.''
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
The movement's organizers in Russia said AA had been introduced into
the country by representatives from the United States and Europe who
came here in the mid-1980s, during Gorbachev's unsuccessful
anti-alcohol campaign, to talk with doctors, the police,
substance-abuse counselors and hospitals.
The group seems to be most appreciated by those members who are old
enough to have been alcoholics under Communist rule.
Felix, who works at a research institute, said he was officially
registered by the authorities as an alcoholic during the Brezhnev era.
His name was kept on a list by the local police. Occasionally he would
have to go to a hospital, where he was given injections or pills that
were supposed to keep him from drinking.
``I was controlled only by fear,'' Felix said. ``Now, coming here to
AA, I feel no fear at all. This way is much better.''
But even among the younger members, the group appears to be meeting a
need that neither the government nor the medical establishment has
addressed.
Igor, who discussed his fear of being thrown out by his sister and
brother-in-law, said he started drinking 18 years ago, when he was 12.
He was in and out of jail for years on robbery charges -- he said
alcohol and drugs were easy to get in prison -- before deciding a few
years ago to go straight.
``I got rid of my criminal connections,'' Igor said. ``Somehow alcohol
was harder.''
After bouncing in and out of drunk tanks and hospitals, he was sent to
AA six months ago by a counselor.
``It completely changed my life,'' Igor said. ``The first time I came
here, I'd been drunk for two months. I didn't understand much at that
time, but I felt the warmth radiating from these people.''
``Here I can tell these people my problems,'' he said. ``Problems that
I tried to talk about in the past to people who wouldn't listen.''
