Ramos: Relations with China Not in Crisis 
President Fidel Ramos on Wednesday dismissed a pro-Beijing magazine's
report that China may wage war against the Philippines over the
disputed Spratly Islands.
Ramos said the relations between the two countries remain good.
``I have noted that many of our local dailies have given front-page
play to an article from a Hong Kong magazine on the possibility of war
with China over the Spratlys,'' Ramos said in a televised news
conference.
``At the outset, let me say this perception comes only from a magazine
article. Whatever affiliations it is believed to have, it does not
represent any kind of official commentary.''
Wide Angle, a Hong Kong monthly reported to have close links with
China's military, said in its latest issue, published Sunday, that a
Chinese show of strength in the area would scare off other claimants.
The Spratlys, in the South China Sea, are viewed as a potential
flashpoint for Asian conflict. They are thought to lie atop rich oil
and mineral deposits and are claimed wholly or partly by China,
Vietnam, Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei and Malaysia.
Wide Angle judged the chances of a military clash in the Spratlys to be
``quite high'' and said Beijing's hope that claimants jointly develop
the area in peace seems to face ``many difficulties.''
Tensions rose in the Spratlys in February when the Philippines
complained of Chinese incursions in areas Manila claims. The
Philippines arrested 62 Chinese fishermen last month for allegedly
poaching near Philippine-held islands in the Spratlys despite Beijing's
demands that they be released.
Philippine officials also believe that concrete structures built by
China on a disputed reef will be used for military purposes. Beijing
has claimed that they are merely shelters for fishermen.
Wide Angle said the recent Filipino actions were only the ``tip of the
iceberg'' of incursions by other countries. It suggested that China
take action before other countries obtain international support for
their claims.
Ramos said foreign affairs and defense officials have not advised him
of any changes in Beijing's ``tone that might signal to us that our
bilateral dialogue on the subject is no longer positive.''
He added that 78 officers studying at the Philippines General Staff
College will visit Beijing next month.
``This fact alone shows that we have not come to a crisis point in our
relations with China, whom we still regard as an important and friendly
neighbor,'' he said.
