Government announces new offensive against rebels
Mexican authorities Thursday announced a crackdown against a new rebel
force in southern Mexico described by President Ernesto Zedillo as a
"terrorist" group.
Deputy Interior Minister Arturo Nunez said there would be a
"strengthening of security measures" in the states of Guerrero and
Oaxaca, where attacks by the Popular Revolutionary Army (EPR) killed 13
and injured 20.
Pablo Salazar, a senator and member of a peace commission holding talks
with another rebel group in Chiapas state, said after a meeting with
the president that Zedillo pledged a hard line against the EPR.
According to Salazar, Zedillo said the EPR "from the start has been
carrying out terrorist actions."
"The government is deeply concerned about the appearance of the EPR,"
Salazar quoted Zedillo as saying.
Zedillo also pledged a "swift" response to to any threats to national
security, the senator added.
According to Salazar, Zedillo drew a distinction between the EPR and
the Chiapas-based Zapatista National Liberation Army (EZLN), which
declared war on the government in 1994, saying the EPR lacks the social
base of the largely indigenous Zapatistas.
Zedillo said the actions of the new rebel group would not jeopardize
peace talks with the Zapatistas.
He said that "dialogue is the only means to resolve the conflict with
the EZLN," according to Salazar, but that "the government will fight
the EPR with the arms of the law."
In a statement issued late Thursday in Guerrero, the EPR called on
Mexican soldiers to "abandon the ranks of the repressive army."
"The war is not against you," the statement said. "It is against those
guilty of injustice and misery."
Nunez said authorities will act "with all the authority of the law"
while at the same time "strictly respecting human rights."
"The proper authorities have begun pursuing the aggressors and hope to
soon identify them," Nunez added.
The announcement came after rebels attacked police and army posts in
the states of Guerrero and Oaxaca Wednesday, leaving at least 13 people
dead.
The rebels attacked several towns in the states of Guerrero and Oaxaca,
and blocked roads in Chiapas to protest police and military
intervention in indigenous communities.
