Kudiratu Abiola buried amid tears as police break up protests 
The slain wife of jailed opposition leader Chief Moshood Abiola was
buried Wednesday after police broke up protests against her murder and
international pressure on Nigeria grew.
Some mourners chanted anti-government slogans, demanding that the
military regime of General Sani Abacha act swiftly to arrest the "armed
bandits" said to have killed Kudiratu Abiola, 44.
She had been an outspoken advocate for the release of her millionaire
husband, jailed on treason charges after he claimed to be the real
winner of Nigeria's last presidential elections on June 12, 1993.
"Adieu Kudiratu Abiola. June 12 will not die," read a placard that was
seen being carried by university students in academic gowns who
attended the burial, which was conducted according to Moslem rites.
They also sang in Yoruba, the language of Abiola's birthplace in
southwestern Nigeria: "Those who have killed Kudiratu in her prime,
have murdered sleep. They and their offspring will know no rest and
they will soon be visited by the god of lightning."
In the presence of about 15 ambassadors and other diplomats, including
those of the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Germany and South
Africa, the students forced another Nigerian millionaire, Alhaji Wahab
Folawiyo, who was seated in the crowd, to quit the venue before the
burial ceremony got underway.
They accused Folawiyo -- who was seated at the same table as the
secretary general of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, Lateef
Adegbite -- of being too pro-government.
As the ceremony began, the students led the crowd in singing the
nation's original post-independence national anthem, which was
discarded more than 10 years ago.
The burial was completed without incident and without visible police
presence around Abiola's vast residential quarters in the Ikeja
district of Lagos.
But earlier police made several arrests when they broke up a protest by
thousands of students in the city of Ibadan.
Police bolstered security measures in the city and blocked access to
the headquarters of Oyo state military governor, Colonel Ike Nwosu,
where the protest march was headed, witnesses said.
The protestors chanted slogans critical of the military regime and
demanded the release of Moshood Abiola and acceptance of the June 1993
presidential election results.
The crowd dispersed without clashing with the police, but several
people, believed to be organisers of the march, were arrested.
Meanwhile, a delegation of government ministers and high-ranking
officers from the military junta, led by army chief of staff General
Ishaya Bamaiyi, presented its condolences to the Abiola family, sources
close to the family said.
Bamaiyi handed over a letter from Abacha expressing "great shock and
deep sense of loss" at the news of the killing.
The head of state promised to do all he could to clarify the
"mysterious" circumstances of her death, the sources said.
Abiola's violent death sent shock waves across the country and was
condemned in Nigeria and abroad.
A minority movement whose leaders were executed late last year called
Wednesday for the isolation of Abacha's regime.
Kudiratu Abiola's death "is clearly no coincidence and bears the
hallmark of assassinations of other prominent pro-democracy activists"
in the West African country, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni
People said.
South African President Nelson Mandela said through a spokesman that he
had "learned with shock ... (of) the heinous act."
US State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said Wednesday: "The
United States deplores the killing of Mrs Kudiratu Abiola."
"We urge the Government of Nigeria to diligently pursue the killers and
ensure that they are identified and duly prosecuted in an open court of
law for this reprehensible crime," he said.
In Ottawa, Canadian Foreign Minister Lloyd Axworthy expressed his
"shock" at the murder, calling Kudiratu Abiola "a tireless campaigner
for the liberation of her husband and for Nigerian democracy in
general."
Axworthy also expressed concern at the "continued deterioration of the
situation in Nigeria," whose membership of the Commonwealth was
suspended after last year's executions.
France said it deplored the murder and called on Nigerian military
authorities to shed maximum light on the crime. France also called for
the release of Moshood Abiola and other political prisoners in Nigeria.
Nigerian police said in a statement they had "directed a full-scale
investigation" into Abiola's assassination and pledged that "no stone
will be left unturned in unravelling the perpetrators of this heinous
crime."
