In an important step toward the resumption of long-stalled peace talks
between the government and peasant rebels in the southern state of
Chiapas, the two sides have settled on mediators for a new dialogue.
In an effort to address one of the root causes of the year-old
rebellion, the government also promised on Wednesday to begin
confiscating and redistributing some illegally large private
landholdings in the state.
The move toward new talks came in a communique from leaders of the
rebel Zapatista National Liberation Army that was dated Dec. 25 and
made public on Tuesday night in the Chiapas city of San Cristobal de
las Casas. The message brought the insurgents' first conciliatory words
for the government in months.
Saluting the decision of President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon's
government to put aside its earlier opposition to a commission of eight
intermediaries led by the Roman Catholic bishop of San Cristobal,
Samuel Ruiz Garcia, the rebels indicated that they were now ready for
negotiations to begin.
The government responded by ordering the retreat of army soldiers who,
in their most aggressive deployment since a cease-fire nearly a year
ago, had taken up positions inside the area that the Zapatistas
consider to be under their control.
Hours after the Defense Ministry issued a statement justifying its
occupation of two villages in the Lacandon rain forest, Zedillo's
office said they had been withdrawn ``with the aim of promoting the
relaxation of tensions in the state of Chiapas.''
Although exchange was perhaps more symbolic than substantive, it
appeared likely to break a cycle of hostility between the two sides.
Angered by what they asserted was the fraudulent election of a Chiapas
governor from Zedillo's governing party, Eduardo Robledo Rincon, the
Zapatistas declared the formal cease-fire broken by his inauguration on
Dec. 8.
They then rejected a commission of legislators from the country's main
political parties that Zedillo had named to intercede in the conflict.
And in a relatively insignificant action on Dec. 19 that they
nonetheless announced as a major new offensive, the rebels emerged from
their strongholds to briefly seize a town and several villages and to
block several highways.
``This is very encouraging for us,'' a member of the mediating
commission, Alberto Szekely, said on Wednesday. ``If the acts now start
to connect with the words, these will be very important steps toward
talks to re-establish the cease-fire.''
The rebels' change in tone was also significant because it came in
their first statement since the Mexican economy was plunged into crisis
by a devaluation of the peso. Although the economy had long been
vulnerable to sudden movements of foreign capital, the government
largely blamed tensions in Chiapas for the capital flight that prompted
the devaluation.
