SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina _ Rebel Serbs sneaked through government lines
and opened fire on an eastern city in a ``massacre'' of civilians, state
radio said Saturday. U.N. officials confirmed at least three deaths. In
Sarajevo, fighting ebbed to its lowest level since the government launched
an offensive on June 15. But government radio said a Serb sabotage unit
slipped into the government-held city of Srebrenica early Saturday and
committed a massacre. U.N. officials confirmed at least three civilians
were killed in ``very unusual circumstances.'' They released no
details. BOGOTA, Colombia _ A former police officer believed to be a leader
of the world's biggest cocaine gang surrendered Saturday, the second such
suspect to turn himself in this month. Victor Patino, 35, joined the Cali
cartel in the late 1980s and rose to the No. 5 position in the gang, which
supplies 80 percent of the world's cocaine. Patino, suspected of being in
charge of the cartel's hitmen, surrendered at a military police base in
Bogota. Another drug leader suspected in several massacres surrendered June
19. Ten days earlier, police captured a third, Gilberto Rodriguez
Orejuela. GENEVA _ The United States and Japan have called in their top
trade negotiators for a high-level effort at resolving an auto dispute that
could close the American market to thousands of Japanese luxury
cars. U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor and Japanese Trade Minister
Ryutaro Hashimoto are to meet Monday evening to try to make peace. They are
hoping to avoid a damaging trade war between the world's two biggest
economies. The United States is trying to open Japan's market to more
U.S. autos and auto parts and has set a deadline of Wednesday for a
deal. BEIRUT, Lebanon _ Lebanon's most feared Christian warlord was
sentenced to life in prison Saturday for murdering a political rival and
his family in 1990, ending an eight-month trial that stirred
Christian-Muslim tensions. Samir Geagea, 43, became the only militia chief
convicted of crimes committed during the 1975-1990 civil war that killed
150,000 people. Other warlords were effectively pardoned, and some have
assumed senior government positions. GUADALAJARA, Mexico _ Army soldiers on
Saturday arrested one of Mexico's most wanted drug traffickers, a man
suspected of involvement in the 1993 assassination of a Roman Catholic
cardinal.  Authorities say Luis Hector Palma Salazar took over the Sinaloa
cartel after its leader, Joaquin Guzman Loera, was arrested in Guatemala in
May 1993. The cartel is based in the northwestern state of Sinaloa.  Both
Guzman and Palma were implicated in the murder of Cardinal Juan Jesus
Posadas Ocampo, his driver and five others in a spray of gunfire at the
Guadalajara airport in May 1993.
