Frustrated Riley Resigns as Knicks Coach
Pat Riley, unable to lead the New York Knicks to the National
Basketball Association title in four years as coach, resigned Thursday
because the team refused to give him final authority over his players.
``Regrettably, there were serious differences and questions about
authority and final decision making,'' Riley said in a prepared
statement. ``I emphasize that the decision to leave the Knicks had
absolutely nothing to do with money. The financial package which we had
been discussing was extremely generous.''
Riley, who came to New York after coaching the Los Angeles Lakers to
four titles in his nine years there, had a year remaining on his
contract. He's had a five-year, dlrs 15 million extension offer pending
since midseason.
``I do not believe that any team can realize its potential when its
head coach, the person most intimately involved with the players,
cannot make final, critical decisions on matters bearing diretly and
intensely on the team, its performance and its future,'' Riley said.
``For the last two years, I had consistently and repeatedly expressed
to Knick management my desire and need to be charged with ultimate
responsibility for all significant aspects of the ballclub. During this
time, I had tried my best to reach an agreement with management on
these issues. Unhappily, the gap between us could not be bridged.''
When Dave Checketts, who hired Riley in 1991, moved up from president
of the Knicks to head Madison Square Garden Corp., the front office
operation was turned over to Ernie Grunfeld, the team's general
manager.
Checketts, now president and chief executive officer of the Garden,
said last month he would press Riley for a decision on the contract
extension.
Riley's resignation came after another disappointing finish for the
Knicks, who were knocked out of the playoffs in seven games by the
Indiana Pacers in the Eastern Conference semifinals. They lost in the
final game at home when a last-second finger-roll by Patrick Ewing
bounced away.
Riley coached the Knicks to the NBA Finals in the 1993-94 season, when
they lost in seven games to the Houston Rockets. The Rockets repeated
as champions with a four-game sweep of Orlando completed Wednesday
night.
Asked if his desire to coach had been drained, Riley said, ``No. It
fortifies it even more. Not reading an Orlando scouting report right
now, getting ready for the game, infuriates me.''
The Knicks had been expected to contend for the title after coming so
close a year ago. But the team struggled through a difficult season,
complicated by injuries and team turmoil.
The early washout from the playoffs angered Riley. ``It makes my
stomach turn,'' he said. ``We had a team that was good enough to win.
It was built to win.''
Riley said the Knicks had failed this season ``because internally, we
broke down. It went on all season longh. It manifested itself in
self-destructive behavior.''
Riley started his coaching career with the Lakers in 1981, leading the
team to the NBA championship. His LA teams also won NBA titles in 1985,
1987 and 1988.
He left the Lakers following the 1989-90 season and spent a year
working for NBC Sports before Checketts hired him to help in the
reconstruction of the Knicks in 1991.
