Compromise accord recognises right to a home by Barbara Lewis 
Days of wrangling over whether housing should be declared a universal
human right on Saturday appeared to have been all but resolved by a
compromise agreement.
The lingering controversy was over the way the press had reported the
issue.
According to the English-language Turkish Daily News on Saturday, the
"desires" of the United States had prevailed in Friday's announcement
that a drafting working group at the UN cities summit Habitat II here
had reached consensus over "housing rights language."
However the acting head of the European Commission delegation to
Habitat II, Thierry Rommel, emphatically disagreed that the United
States had won the day.
He claimed the US stance on Friday, which should be finally adopted by
the conference next week, represented "a tremendous development" from
when the debate first began rumbling more than a year ago. Then the
United States, worried about law suits from the inadequately housed,
fought shy of any acknowledgement of housing as a human right.
In a statement on Friday, the European Union commented it was "fully
satisfied with the clear re-affirmation of the right to adequate
housing."
Friday's cautious compromise acknowledged that the right to housing
existed in various human rights instruments, notably the 1948 Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. However, it also insisted that the burden
does not just lie with governments.
"The text clearly states that the provision of adequate housing for
everyone requires actions not only by national governments and
international organisations, but by all levels of government and all
sectors of civil society -- including the private sector,
non-governmental organisations, communities and local authorities,"
Michael Stegman, assistant secretary to the US Department of Housing
and Urban Development, said in a statement.
An agreed text also fixed 14 concrete actions that "governments should
take in pursuit of the realisation of adequate housing for all."
"This language supports the concept of enablement, which means that
individuals living closest to a problem must be an integral part of
identifying and implementing solutions," Stegman added.
He added "We are confident that this language will ultimately be
approved by all relevant bodies of the conference."
With some 1.5 billion poorly housed and 100 million completely without
shelter, according to UN figures, housing is regarded as one of the
most pressing problems being addressed by Habitat II, and has proved
the most contentious issue of the conference so far.
Billed as the last major UN global conference of the century, Habitat
II is the second UN urban summit United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements. The first, Habitat I, took place in Vancouver, Canada, in
1976.
Habitat II aims to address the challenge posed by the massive
population growth in cities and to develop a world action plan to
define urban policies for the 21st century, particularly in mushrooming
mega-cities of more than 10 million people.
Wally N'Dow, secretary general of the conference, has described its
task as nothing less than "negotiating the survival of the human
species."
Despite a hefty security presence in Istanbul, including soldiers on
the streets, delegates were in relaxed weekend mode on Saturday as they
took part in a global "conversation" on human solidarity in the
sumptuous setting of the Ciragan Palace Hotel.
Among the interlocutors at the forum dubbed "a spontaneous conversation
by a group of the world's leading thinkers" were Brazil's firt lady
Ruth Cardoso, former mayor of Jerusalem Teddy Kollek, Federico Mayor,
director general of the UN cultural organisation (UNESCO) and Ismail
Serageldin, vice president of the World Bank.
