Military takes up positions in Bangladesh ahead of controversial polls
Thousands of troops, paramilitary forces and riot police hunkered down
in the Bangladeshi capital Wednesday as a strike paralysed the country
one day before general elections boycotted by the opposition.
In the strike-gripped port city of Chittagong and the southern city of
Khulna, anti-poll violence Wednesday left four people dead, several
wounded and some polling centres damaged by fires blamed on arson,
officials said.
A 22-year-old man suspected to have been carrying explosives was killed
and another injured when they were hit in a blast in Patenga district,
local police said.
In another incident in nearby Panchlaish area, a 25-year-old opposition
activist died after a crude bomb he allegedly threw on the residence of
a ruling party leader bounced back on him, doctors said.
In southern Khulna, pro- and anti-poll supporters clashed leaving two
people dead, local police said.
With the four dead Wednesday, the toll in pre-poll violence in the past
two weeks rose to 23. Scores have been injured and hundreds arrested,
officials said.
In other sporadic incidents in eastern Brahmanbaria, central Gopalganj
and elsewhere, several people, including a poll official, were injured,
election offices were attacked and damaged by anti-poll activists.
In Dhaka, opposition activists Wednesday set fire to several polling
booths in Banani, and Sutrapur districts, fire officials said, adding
similar incident was also reported from suburban Mirpur area.
Several people were injured in sporadic incidents elsewhere and in one
place troops broke up a march by opposition activists who lobbed some
crude bombs at the downtown home of a senior poll official but there
were no casualties, witnesses and police said.
Troops in camouflage uniform and armed with machine guns sat behind
sandbags at the main intersections in Dhaka. Army helicopters buzzed
overhead and riot police fanned across the city of eight million.
Bangladesh's chief election commissioner A.K.M. Sadeque, in charge of
the nationwide balloting, Wednesday said troops had been deployed to
assist the civil administration in the smooth conduct of balloting,
adding that the army had also been called upon in previous elections.
But this time, he told journalists, the troops were deployed earlier in
view of "open threats" from opposition political parties to disrupt the
elections.
Later in a televised address Sadeque explained the legal compulsions
behind Thursday's voting for 300 parliamentary seats and warned that
there might be a "constitutional deadlock" without the scheduled
election.
He called on voters to go to the polls and cautioned against any
attempt to disrupt the process, saying the army and security agencies
had been instructed to "suppress any attempt to intimidate voters and
obstruct voting".
Shops, offices and schools remained closed and traffic stayed off the
roads, excepting pedicabs which were exempted from the protest.
The huge military presence coincided with the start of a 48-hour
general strike led by the main opposition Awami League party to protest
Thursday's "farcical" polls.
The opposition parties have vowed to disrupt the vote for Bangladesh's
sixth parliament as part of their two-year old street to oust Prime
Minister Khaleda Zia and fresh elections under a caretaker neutral
administration.
Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist Party is assured of a sweeping victory
although Western diplomats estimated only about 10 percent of
Bangladesh's estimated 50-million electorate will vote.
Wajed and her allies, the deposed Jatiya Party and the Jamaat-e-Islami
who resigned en masse from the 330-seat parliament in December 1994,
accuse Zia of "unleashing a reign of terror."
Zia dismissed the charges but offered fresh talks with her rivals after
Thursday's elections to resolve the lingering government-opposition
standoff.
The 51-year-old widow of assassinated president Ziaur Rahman denied
charges that she lusted for power and said the elections were thrust
upon her since the constitution required polls within 90 days of
parliament being dissolved.
