Two years after massacres, trials are still awaited 
As Rwanda marks the second anniversary of the beginning of the genocide
that killed at least half a million people, the trials of those deemed
responsible are still to be arranged.
No alleged planner or perpetrator of the slaughter of minority Tutsis
and moderate Hutus by Hutu extremists in the wake of the death in a
plane crash of President Juvenal Habyarimana has yet been judged, to
the despair of victims' families.
However there are hopes of some progress by next month, as predicted by
President Pasteur Bizimungu and Richard Goldstone, chief prosecutor for
the international tribunal for Rwanda.
The tribunal was set up in November 1994 by the United Nations to judge
those allegedly responsible for acts of genocide or other serious
violations of human rights in Rwanda during 1994.
Given the scale of the atrocities and its own limited resources, the
tribunal only intends to try the top people behind the killings,
leaving it to Rwanda's courts to deal with the thousands of lesser
butchers.
The investigations are prolonged and costly, and the tribunal, based in
Arusha, Tanzania, has limited resources.
So far it has indicted only a handful of suspects, of whom only two or
three have been arrested in the countries where they fled.
But the present Tutsi-led government in Rwanda also wants to try the
leaders, and it has outdistanced the international tribunal by
demanding the extradition of 19 people from Cameroon, of whom 13 have
been arrested.
Goldstone is hoping for early consultations on their fate, and could
end up prosecuting some of them. He has noted that his court takes
supremacy over national jurisdictions.
Another suspect, Colonel Theoneste Bagosora, also tracked down to
Cameroon, has been sent to Belgium, which asked for his extradition
first for his alleged role in the murder of 10 Belgian UN peacekeepers.
Meanwhile nearly 70,000 Hutus are crammed into Rwandan jails awaiting
trial for their alleged role in the 1994 genocide. Many have been
imprisoned after denunciation for purely personal motives.
The trials by a judicial system which is only slowly beginning to
recover after being decimated by the killings and subsequent flight of
more than a million refugees.
But they are deemed essential if there is to be any sort of
reconciliation between Rwanda's ethnic groups.
Bizimungu said last week that no defendant would be sentenced to death
or life imprisonment.
