Refugees in Georgia to vote in referendum on Abkhaz election plan 
Georgia will organise a referendum among refugees from the breakaway
Abkhazia region to see if they support the Abkhaz authorities' decision
to hold parliamentary elections on November 23, ITAR-TASS news agency
reported Thursday.
Georgia is opposed to elections in the region on the Black Sea, where
separatists declared independence from Tbilisi in August 1993 and drove
out the Georgian army in a year-long war.
Some 250,000 Georgian civilians fled Abkhazia during the conflict, and
Tbilisi has demanded their repatriation as a condition for a peace
settlement.
In the referendum, decreed by President Eduard Shevardnadze on
Thursday, the refugees will be asked: "do you support the Abkhaz
separatists' idea of holding elections to the Abkhaz supreme soviet
(parliament) before the restoration of Georgia's territorial integrity
and the return of refugees to Abkhazia?"
ITAR-TASS said the referendum would be held on the same day as the
planned Abkhaz parliamentary elections.
Meanwhile, 17 Georgian opposition parties set up a committee Thursday
to press for the withdrawal of Russian troops from the Caucasus
republic, Interfax news agency reported.
The new opposition committee "will continue its work until the last
Russian soldier has left Georgia," declared Irakli Tsereteli, leader of
the National Independence Party.
He stressed that the committee would use only "peaceful means" to exert
pressure.
Russia retains several military bases in Georgia and has around 3,000
peacekeeping troops deployed on Georgia's border with Abkhazia.
Shevardnadze and the Georgian parliament have called on Russia either
to resolve the Abkhazia problem or pull out of Georgia altogether.
General Leonid Ivashov, a department chief in the Russian general
staff, said Russia did not rule out changes to an agreement on its
military bases in Georgia, which has not been ratified by the Georgian
parliament, ITAR-TASS reported Thursday.
Ivashov said the issue had been discussed by Russian Defence Minister
Igor Rodionov and his Georgian counterpart Vardiko Nadibaidze recently.
Changes to the bases agreement could allow Russia to resume deliveries
of military equipment to Georgia, Ivashov said, while stressing that
such cooperation would have to be handled carefully to avoid provoking
the Abkhaz authorities.
In August this year, Georgia and Abkhazia agreed to extend the mandate
of the Russian peacekeeping troops until January 31 next year.
Negotiations on the status of Abkhazia however remain deadlocked.
