Cruise ship 'scam' nets millions from Third World's jobless
When advertisements appeared in the Kenyan press a year ago offering
50,000 well-paid positions on luxury cruise liners, jobless citizens
around the impoverished country thought their ship had finally come in.
This week Kenyan government finally added its voice to widespread
claims that the deal was indeed too good to be true: that there were
probably no ships and no jobs, just a simple scam allegedly
masterminded by a British businessman -- who denies the charges -- with
the connivance of at least one senior Kenyan government official.
The businessman has insisted the employment opportunities are genuine
and would materialise soon.
By the time doubts reached a critical mass and a police investigation
was ordered, the alleged fraudsters are thought to have netted millions
of dollars in registration and medical fees and thousands of valid
passports.
And that was just in Kenya: the same scheme has allegedly been pulled
off India, Bangladesh, Thailand, Burma, Jordan and Morocco.
"This is one of the greatest hoaxes Kenyans have been subjected to,"
Norman Nyagah, an opposition member of parliament who sits on a
parliamentary committee on health and labour, told AFP.
"Not a single one of them (Kenyan applicants) has been employed and now
the figure could be 12,000 or 13,000," he said.
Labour and Human Resources Development Minister Joseph Ngutu, whose
office approved the scheme last year, said this week: "It is reasonable
to conclude that no jobs exist."
The National Seamen's Union of Kenya put the number of those conned at
more than 30,000.
"There are no jobs on the global cruise ship circuit announced for any
Kenyans. It is a multi-million scam that shouldn't happen" chimed in
Salim Iddi Mwasina, a top union official.
"We at the ITF (International Transport Workers Federation) are
completely opposed to plans to dupe Kenyans. ... It is more or less a
scam," Secretary General David Cockroft told a Nairobi news conference.
Kenyan applicants paid up to 100 dollars each, more than a policeman
earns in a month, to "register" for employment and undergo medical
tests, even after the government ordered, in June 2001, that no fees be
charged.
In a letter to the Criminal Investigation Division (CID) of the Kenyan
police, the labour ministry named Muhammed Ali Pasha, who holds both
British and Pakistani passports, as the man at the centre of the
affair.
Pasha is the managing director and a minority shareholder of the
Dubai-based scrap metal transporter Al Najat Marine Shipping LLC, which
hired several recruitment agents in Kenya, purportedly on behalf of a
group of cruiseship lines.
As well as calling for Pasha's arrest, the ministry asked the CID to
investigate Kenya's former acting director of employment George Hamisi
Odenyo, who allegedly also acted as a recruiting agent, for his role in
"committing the government to this exercise."
An email purportedly from Pasha given to applicants this week by the
agents nevertheless insists that there is no hoax, just an "innocent
recruitment project. ... Our stand is absolutely genuine and firm and
this project by all means is going to be materialised within a short
time."
"The agents are still confirming the jobs are there," one applicant who
asked not to be named told AFP on Thursday.
"We have been waiting a year. They told us not to go for any other jobs
in the meantime," he said.
The majority shareholder of Al Najat is, according to a Kenyan
government delegation that visited Pasha in Dubai in April, the Prince
of Sharjah, Sheikh Saqr bin Abdulla bin Mohammed al Qasimi.
The delegation made no suggestion that the prince was implicated in the
scam.
But it concluded that the "alleged consortium of shipping lines (where
the Kenyans were to be employed) based in London is non-existent."
The team reported that Pasha irately refused to provide for inspection
any contract with the consortium, citing confidentiality.
"Enquiries revealed that he (Pasha) has never lived up to his promises
nor fulfilled his obligations," their report said.
"The team noted that the company is involved in similar recruitment
exercises in other countries (and) saw parcels of documents arriving at
(Pasha's) office from many parts of the world," it said.
Pasha was due to travel to Britain this month, it said.
