Kenya Takes Measures to Protect Domestic 
The Kenyan government has taken stringent measures to protect local
industries from unfair competition arising from transit goods illegally
diverted into the domestic market.
Under the measures, all goods in transit shall be stored in special
godowns licensed by Kenyan Commissioner of Customs and Excise.
The transit godowns should be clearly marked in large letters and the
serial number given by the Commissioner and they should not be used for
storage of any other goods.
On sugar imports, licensed transit godowns should be required to
construct a separate part inside for the storage of sugar only.
All existing conditions governing the movement and control of goods in
transit should be fulfilled and during the 45-day period such goods
must be re-exported from Kenya.
Goods in transit stored in unlicensed godowns will be liable to
forfeiture and owners of unlicensed godowns will be guilty of an
offense.
It is believed that all these measures are mainly aimed at protecting
domestic sugar producers and ensuring that the government collects its
rightful revenue.
Earlier this month, the Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) appealed to
the government to protect local sugar companies from unscrupulous
importers.
Local companies are now having 70,000 tons of sugar in store, which are
unable to sell due to the flooding of Kenyan market by imported sugar
at cheaper prices.
Sugar industry sources asserted that imported sugar meant for
neighboring countries is being diverted to the local markets at low
prices because no duties have been paid.
Last year most of more-than-400-million-U.S.-Dollar sugar imported for
transit to other countries were dumped on local markets in the eastern
African country.
The FKE noted that "it is against the principles of liberalization of
the market and globalization of trade as importation of cheap sugar
does not provide a level-playing ground or promote fair competition in
the local market."
According to Kenyan Finance Minister Musalia Mudavadi, the
transportation of the imported sugar meant for Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi
and Zaire is being closely monitored to ensure it is not sold to
consumers locally.
