WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Bill Clinton on Tuesday said he would like to
help Ehud Barak, Israel's newly elected prime minister, pursue
land-for-peace accord with the Palestinians, Syria and Lebanon. "I think
the road map is out there," Clinton said, referring to last year's Wye
agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. "And we'll do what we've
always done. And I've been working at this for six years, and I'm looking
forward to continuing." (US- Israel-Clinton) - - - - PARIS -- French
President Jacques Chirac said on Tuesday that France firmly supports
China's efforts to enter the World Trade Organization (WTO) and he hoped
that China can enter the WTO before the end of the year. In a joint
communique with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder released by the Elysee
presidential palace, Chirac said that France, as well as Germany, have
taken note of the efforts already made by China to create necessary
conditions for its admission by WTO.  (France-Germany-China-WTO) - - - -
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Federal Reserve decided Tuesday that inflation is
not signaling a threat to justify an immediate increase in interest
rates. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), composed of Fed board
members and regional bank presidents, ended closed-door discussions with a
decision to leave the target for the federal funds rate, the interest that
banks charge each other, unchanged. (US-Fed-Interest Rates) - - - - ROME --
Italy and Germany support the idea of a United Nations resolution
enshrining international demands for Kosovo as the basis for finding a
solution to the crisis, Italian Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema and his
German counterpart, Gerhard Schroeder, said in Italy at the end of the
Italian-German summit Tuesday. But the summit, which started Monday in
Italian southeastern city of Bari, did not produce the expected joint
document based on D'Alema's plan for a suspension of bombing.
(Italy-Germany-Kosovo) - - - - Los Angeles -- Coping with downward price
pressure and fast- growing new competition are among the most important
marketplace challenges over the next year to chief executives around the
world. In a survey of 656 CEOs conducted by the Conference Board, the
world's leading business membership and research organization, more than
two-thirds of those heading industrial manufacturing firms and 55 percent
of those leading consumer products companies say that pressures on prices
will be their major market challenge over the next year. (Worldwide
Concerns-Price Pressure) - - - - PARIS -- France has said it opposes a
suspension of NATO air- strikes against Yugoslavia unless Belgrade accepts
the conditions presented by the Western countries on solving the Kosovo
issue. Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine told the National Assembly, or lower
house of parliament, on Tuesday that a suspension of NATO strikes is ruled
out.  (France-Yugoslavia-NATO)
