Chechen warlord would have Russian leaders tried if elected 
Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev, who is running for president in
upcoming polls, has said he would have Russian leaders tried in an
international court over the Chechen war if elected, the German
magazine Bild reported Tuesday.
"If I am president, I would get up an international tribunal against
Russian leaders for conducting the war," he told the magazine, which
said only that Basayev had been interviewed in his "headquarters."
"Russia took all our people hostage for two years," he said.
Basayev added, however, that he was prepared to "cooperate with
Russia."
"I would even be ready to take up a place at table with the worst of
the Russian devils if anything whatsoever could be got out of it for
us," he said.
Russian forces invaded Chechnya in late 1994 to quash the republic's
independence bid. A peace agreement was signed between the two sides in
August last year and the republic is due to hold presidential and
legislative elections this month.
Basayev said collaboration with Russia would only be his fourth
priority if he were elected.
"I would put independence for the republic in top position, then a
determined war on crime would be undertaken, thirdly we would need to
improve the people's situation quickly, and fourthly I would cooperate
with Russia," he said.
Basayev, who described as his models Cuban revolutionary Che Guevara,
Italian general Giusppe Garibaldi, and former French and US presidents
Charles de Gaulle and Franklin Roosevelt, said legislation would be
based on Chechen traditions and the sharia, or Islamic law, if he were
elected.
"We are expecting no presents from the West," he said. "What is
important for us is that the West stops financing Russia's imperialist
ambitions ... The West has paid 20,000 dollars for the death of every
Chechen and 100,000 Chechens died in total."
Most estimates suggest that around 40,000 people, Russians and
Chechens, died during the 21-month war.
Basayev is best known for carrying out a raid on the town of
Budyonnovsk in southern Russia in June 1995. Over 1,000 people were
taken hostage and at least 150 killed during the crisis.
Basayev himself escaped after negotiating an exit with Russian Prime
Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin.
Basayev is one of 16 candidates running for president in the January 27
election. Aslan Maskhadov, the former head of Chechen forces during the
war, is considered the favourite.
