Israeli Banks Hapless In Face Of Low-Tech Heists
Hard up for shekels? No problem.
Just brandish a toy gun, pass the teller a note, then take the money
and run. The virtually unprotected banks in security-obsessed Israel
don't seem to care.
But police are not amused.
As officials met with bank directors Monday to urge improved security,
low-tech lawbreakers staged the 47th and 48th heists of a summer crime
wave.
The take, as usual, was modest _ the equivalent of $10,000 in Jerusalem
and a quarter that sum in Tel Aviv. So were the getaways: the
perpetrators fled on foot.
A frustrated Police Minister Moshe Shahal told bank directors Monday
that the time had come for stronger measures to stop ``the robberies
that have become a phenomenon.''
Tel Aviv police chief Gabi Last said these measures included
closed-circuit television cameras, security guards and special alarms.
Nissim Barel, security chief for the Banking Association, said the
banks are ``considering buying new technologies that will enable us to
report to the police quicker (so) that reaction time will be a matter
of seconds.''
But Discount Bank chairman Gideon Lahav said armed guards are unlikely.
No one knows exactly what sparked the fad. Tabloids have hailed the new
``national sport,'' while state-run TV bemoaned ``the unbearable
lightness of stealing.''
``Perhaps the banks should set up a special counter for robberies, to
save time and nerves for robbers and tellers both,'' suggested
commentator Yosef Lapid in the Maariv daily.
Police experts say most of the robbers are small-time thieves or drug
addicts encouraged by the publicity.
Reports have focused on cooperative bank tellers generally instructed
by jittery managers to avoid heroics that could unbalance the lucrative
banking industry.
Instead, banks limit the amount of money accessible to tellers to what
constitutes an acceptable write-off, an investigator said. And large
heists are unlikely as bank safes have a delay mechanism that would
force robbers to cool their heels for 10 long minutes before gaining
entry.
Only 12 suspects have been arrested in the latest wave.
One man was caught last month when police matched him to fingerprints
on the robbery note he carelessly left with the teller.
Another robber, a 65-year-old man, succeeded in plundering three banks
with the aid of a toy gun and a monkey mask before he was collared by
alert citizens outside a Tel Aviv bank.
