Israel-blast JERUSALEM: The radical Palestinian group suspected of
orchestrating the suicide bombing in a Tel Aviv cafe warned of further
attacks if Israel goes ahead with its vast housing project in east
Jerusalem. Indonesia-ETimor-unrest JAKARTA: Scores of young East
Timorese clashed with security during a demonstration at a Dili hotel
where a UN special envoy is staying, leaving many injured, witnesses
said. UN-Angola LUANDA: Former Angolan rebels and the government have
decided to accelerate the process to set up a government of unity and
national reconciliation (GURN), a UN official said. Zaire KISANGANI:
While Zairean President Mobutu Sese Seko lay low in the capital
Kinshasa, a day after returning home from France, rebel leader
Laurent-Desire Kabila claimed fresh victories as his guerrillas moved
further south and west. US-Russia HELSINKI: Would-be members of NATO
beamed with satisfaction after the United States and Russia agreed to
disagree over expanding the western defense bloc into former Soviet
Bloc territory. US-Canada WASHINGTON: The Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) said it wanted to question a Saudi Arabian
suspected in last year's terrorist bombing of a US barracks in Saudi
Arabia. US-Russia-NATO HELSINKI: Russia said it had failed to agree
with the United States on whether former Soviet states would be able to
join an expanding NATO, and warned that ties with the alliance would be
jeopardized if the three Baltic states were admitted. Albania TIRANA:
Italy is preparing to send emergency aid to stricken Albania where
rebels are refusing to lay down their arms unless President Sali
Berisha resigns. PNG-Bougainville PORT MORESBY: Papua New Guinea's
political crisis boiled over as an obscure army major declared himself
in control of the armed forces and ordered Prime Minister Sir Julius
Chan out by Tuesday. Burma-unrest RANGOON: A group of at least 50
Buddhist monks raided a mosque in northeastern Rangoon, signalling a
spread of last week's Buddhist-Moslem unrest from Mandalay to the
capital, witnesses said. Taiwan-Dalai-Lee TAIPEI: Taiwan President Lee
Teng-hui will meet with the Dalai Lama Thursday, the presidential
office confirmed for the first time. afp
