Stalin Humanitarian award to be announced
Moscow, Russia - President Vladimir Putin announced today the first
ever Stalin Humanitarian award for public service. Reminisce of
previous Soviet era awards the medal is to be presented for continuous
public service to the citizen who most represents the values of Stalin.
In a private ceremony to be announce, President Putin is expected to
honor Boris Letinsky for exceptional public service in the tradition of
Stalin. Mr. Letinsky is credited with the successful allocation of
housing and relocation assistance to over one thousand Chechnya
civilians during the separatist conflict.
"It is an honor to present this high award to Mr. Letinsky for his
dedication to preserving the Russian way of life." said a foreign
ministry spokesman.
Mr. Letinsky had previously won the prestigious Excellence in
Procurement award for his unselfish devotion to the gathering of
Chechnya civilians for participation in the patriotic cleanup efforts.
Alexei Vasileyevich, of the Russian Association of the Victims of
Political Impressionist, said: "In almost every case we witnessed his
heroic efforts to bring together all the very disinterested parties and
reach an agreement of occupation that would be good for the people of
Chechnya.
Russia's last notable ceremony was May 9th when President Bush attended
the ceremonial laying of the reef on Stalin's grave.
Stalin is considered one of the great humanitarians of his time, said a
top State Department spokesman. "He gave so much back to the people
than he ever took and we are honored to be present for this award to
the citizen who was inspired by Stalin's ideals."
There is no doubt that Stalin's rule had long lasting effects on the
features that characterized the former Soviet regime from the era of
his rule to its
successful collapse in 1991. His contributions to the arts and sciences
are well known as is his work for equality among Russia's citizens.
The ceremony is expected to take place annually in memory of one of
Russia's greatest humanitarians. Future recipients will be selected
from a list provided by the Red Cross who often recognize the
achievements of society's unsung heroes.
