12 people brutally murdered in Algeria - newspaper 
Twelve people aged between 20 and 45 were brutually murdered a week ago
by suspected Islamic militants near Chlef in western Algeria, the
Liberte daily reported Sunday.
The armed men stopped the 12 people -- including an imam and a communal
guard -- at a roadblock and asked them to get off for an identity check
before executing them.
Algeria has been hit by a spate of brutal murders of civilians in
recent weeks.
On Saturday, the daily Le Matin reported that Islamic extremists in
eastern Algeria killed the wives of nine local patrolmen by slitting
their throats and then decapitating some of them.
The incident occurred overnight on August 19 near the town of Mila. Six
headless bodies were found, and three others were completely charred.
Some 371 women have been killed by Islamic fundamentalists since last
year and hundreds of others kidnapped, tortured or raped, according to
the Algerian security forces.
On Sunday, the El Watan daily reported that a booby-trapped lorry blew
up Saturday afternoon in Boufarik, 25 kilometres (15 miles) south of
Algiers, destroying several homes but claiming no casualties.
Security forces found the lorry, packed with explosives, inside a
private garage, the newspaper said.
Liberte also reported that a home-made bomb was found hidden in railway
tracks near Chlef in the west and defused in time before a train
passed.
Army bomb disposal experts exploded the bomb in a nearby field.
In early August, a bomb exploded when a train travelling between Medea
and Ksar El-Boukhari, in the same region, killed seven people.
Liberte and La Tribune reported on Sunday details of a huge army search
operation in Kabylie, east of Algiers.
The Akbil, the Ouacifs, Ait Yenni and Ain El Hammam regions, and
particularly the Tahechat and Ath Waaban forests, were fine-combed.
No details of the results of the army sweep, backed by helicopters,
were given. Several murders have occurred in isolated villages in these
regions.
El Watan also said that 29 terrorists were arrested during Wednesday's
army sweep in the Algiers Casbah.
They were charged with "being on the lookout, protecting the flight of
terrorists after each attack and giving them shelter, food and money"
as well as "seeking out potential targets," El Watan said.
Several automatic guns, hunting rifles, surgical equipment, sleeping
bags, and subversive documents were seized, it added.
Liberte, for its part, reported Saturday that 300 people were detained
during this search operation.
Last week, a journalist from the Le Matin Ameur Ouagueni daily, and the
imam, or religious leader, of Sidi Abderrahmane mosque were
assasinated.
The Arab-language daily Al-Khabar said eight Islamic militants were
recently killed by security forces in an operation in the Bounefsa
forests, near Drean in eastern Algeria.
During this operation, security forces seized fake banknotes and gas
cylinders used to make bombs, the newspaper said.
