Delegates Still Fight for Agreement on U.N. Arms Traffic Deal
Fred Eckhard, the U.N. spokesman, told a press conference here that
despite late-night negotiations over the past days, delegates found by
Friday noon "still some outstanding issues unresolved" on the draft
Program of Action, the final document expected to be adopted at the end
of the conference on Friday.
After a closed session on Friday morning, he said that the outstanding
issues include the private gun ownership, the export control and a
proposed review conference in five years. The conference will resume at
3:00 p.m. EST on Friday in an effort to reach consensus on the draft.
Many diplomats acknowledged that their hope for the strongly- worded
Program of Action have been crushed by hard-liners, including the
United States. Others fear that the conference, which was kicked off on
July 9, may end in failure in getting the unbinding plan passed at the
first U.N. conference on small arms.
The tough U.S. stance was criticized by its Western allies, who want to
strengthen global coordination and cooperation against illegal trade in
small arms. They said that anyone, including the United States, has to
give little at the table.
While insisting it hoped an agreement could be reached, Washington has
consistently stressed that it could not accept any strategy that did
not shield private gun owners, makers and dealers. So far, the United
States, the top exporter of small arms and light weapons in the world,
has not compromised on a single item.
As the conference progressed, delegates began questioning whether
Washington was trying to block any agreement as a gesture to the
National Rifle Association, a close political ally of the George W.
Bush administration.
More than 500 million small arms and light weapons are in circulation
around the world -- one for about every 12 people. They were the
weapons of choice in 46 out of 49 major conflicts since 1990, causing 4
million deaths, about 90 percent of them civilians and 80 percent women
and children.
