Time Warner Inc. is considering a reorganization involving its
entertainment subsidiary, according to industry analysts.
One likely move, analysts said, is shifting Warner Brothers and the HBO
cable network out of the Time Warner Entertainment subsidiary and back
under the umbrella of the parent company. This would leave the
entertainment subsidiary with just its cable systems and regional
telephone operations.
Ed Adler, a spokesman for Time Warner, declined to comment on the
speculation.
Time Warner Entertainment was established in October 1991 with Itochu
Corp. and Toshiba Corp. as limited partners. US West became another
limited partner in May 1993.
Analysts have been talking about a broad revamping of Time Warner for
several weeks. Wall Street considers Time Warner as largely a cable
company, and as such is highly regulated and would need significant
amounts of capital to upgrade its systems.
Some analysts believe that Time Warner could maximize value for
stockholders by isolating the cable operations in Time Warner
Entertainment and reshaping the remainder of the assets -- including
publishing and music, as well as movie and television films -- under
the corporate parent.
Noting a reorganization by Tele-Communications Inc. and the $2.7
billion write-down by Sony of its Hollywood studios, Christopher Dixon,
entertainment analyst with Paine Webber, said, ``It is very clear that
many companies are going to reassess the capital structures they put in
place several years ago.''
Dixon issued a report on this subject called ``Time Warner: A Modest
Proposal -- Monkey See Monkey Do?'' on Nov. 21.
``The speculation is that Time Warner will try to structure the company
in such a way that the market will value its content-rich motion
picture and HBO assets separately from its capital-intensive cable
television business,'' Dixon said.
Shares of Time Warner closed Monday on the New York Stock Exchange at
$34.125, up 50 cents.
Any type of restructuring involving Time Warner Entertainment would, of
course, require the consent of US West, Itochu and Toshiba. But a
person close to Time Warner says that its planning is still in the
preliminary stage and not yet ready for any concrete proposals to be
made to the entertainment subsidiary partners.
