Western economies have the best growth prospects in years, but not
enough to create a significant boost in jobs, a U.N. report predicted
Monday.
The annual survey of the Economic Commission for Europe said Western
Europe can expect an increase in gross domestic product of about 3
percent this year, up from 2.5 percent last year.
The United States, which grew at 4 percent last year, will drop back to
3 percent growth this year, said the report.
``The economic outlook for sustained and balanced growth in Western
Europe is probably better than at an time since the oil shocks of the
1970s,'' it said, but added that fluctuating currency rates posed a
challenge to policy makers.
Even with the improved figures it will remain difficult for out-of-work
Western Europeans to find jobs, the 233-page report said.
It noted ``a great deal of public discussion'' on how to reduce
joblessness, such as less labor regulation and more job training, but
said such ideas ``will not succeed unless economic growth is
sufficiently high over a prolonged period of time.''
The commission's economists said every country has to achieve minimum
levels of growth just to maintain the current level of jobs. In Western
Europe, the necessary minimum is about 2 percent.
But, the report noted, the number of people entering the job market is
constantly increasing. That means Western Europe will need to grow at
2.5 to 3 percent to keep unemployment from going up, it said.
To create jobs significantly faster than people join the job market,
Western Europe will have to grow at 3.5 percent in coming years, the
report said.
The United States has a much lower threshold of growth needed to
increase the number of jobs, it said. An increase of .1 percent in
gross domestic product is enough to keep the number of jobs constant in
the United States.
The United States is more flexible for a number of reasons, it said.
There is little labor regulation beyond equal opportunity, unemployment
benefits are limited to 26 weeks, the minimum wage is low compared with
average wages ``and union membership and collective bargaining are the
exception.''
At the same time, the gap between rich and poor is widening in the
United States, with the poor getting poorer, it said, adding that
``there is evidence too of a deep-seated sense of insecurity across the
whole spectrum of the workforce.''
Unemployment, which has been rising in Western Europe since 1990,
peaked in most countries in 1994, averaging 11.2 percent, with just
under 20 million people out of work, the report said.
North America, which is ahead of Europe in economic recovery, enjoyed
the second successive year of decline in the jobless rate, with the
total unemployed in Canada and the United States dropping below 10
million, it said. Canada's jobless rate was 10.3 percent, and the
United States, where unemployment peaked at 7.3 percent in 1992, now
has 6 percent.
