Kashmir authorities send team to negotiate release of kidnapped tourists 
The Indian police force Saturday despatched a special team team to
negotiate the release of two Americans and two Britons abducted four
days ago by Moslem rebels in the troubled state of Kashmir.
An official said in this state summer capital that the team was camping
in the hill resort town of Pahalgam, some 100 kilometres (62 miles)
from here, where the four were seized while on a trekking holiday.
He however said the team had failed to establish contact with the rebel
Al-Faran group which claimed responsibility for the kidnappings.
The official said the four captives and their kidnappers had been seen
overnight Friday by residents in a village close to Pahalgam, where
additional troops in full battle gear were combing the surrounding
woods.
"We are aware that the tourists have been spotted," he said on
condition of anonymity. "But we will not take any step which could
endanger their lives.
"We will try to persuade the abductors to set them free," he said.
"The army is trying to plug all escape routes," a police spokesman said
in Srinagar, the urban hub of a Moslem secessionist drive which has
claimed more than 12,000 lives in Kashmir since 1989.
The previously unknown Al-Faran group demanded the release of 21 Moslem
guerrillas from Indian prisons in a note given to three other tourists
who were freed.
A Kashmir government spokesman said Friday that the police had used a
helicopter to fly over the thickly wooded and mountainous region where
the four were seized by a group of 15 Moslem militants.
The Foreign Office in London has identified the Britons as Keith Mangan
and Paul Wells. Indian police have identified the abducted Americans as
John Donald and Fred Hutchings.
Indian officials have accused a pro-Pakistan group, the
Harkat-ul-Ansar, of abducting the tourists. The Harkat seized two
British trekkers in the same area last year, releasing them after 17
days.
Other Kashmiri Moslem rebels groups have condemned the abduction and
accused "Indian agents" of staging the kidnapping to discredit the
separatist movement.
Meanwhile, hundreds of angry Moslems took to the streets here Saturday
to protest the alleged murder of seven suspected guerrillas at the
hands of Indian security forces late Friday, witnesses said.
Shops and banks were closed in parts of Srinagar which observed a
mourning.
