Mandela mentally and physically well, says full medical report 
Nelson Mandela's doctors Friday issued a comprehensive public statement
in which they gave the 77-year-old South African president a clean bill
of mental and physical health.
The statement was issued after Mandela underwent three days of
intensive medical tests earlier this month at a private Johannesburg
clinic in a bid to quash speculation about his health.
He ordered the tests after rumours that his health was failing shook
investor confidence and caused the South African currency, the rand, to
dip sharply against the dollar on two ocassions.
The statement, which is packed with complex medical terms, said that
Mandela had asked that his past and current medical problems be
described "in some detail".
"At this time, he is assessed as being physically fit for a man of his
age and remarkably active as well as, of course, mentally astute," the
joint statement released by his office said.
Mandela said after being discharged from the clinic that he felt very
well.
The report said the tests showed no signs of heart disease or cancer
and while his blood pressure was high in 1990, it has been "well
controlled" with drugs since then.
He is also receiving treatment for a large hydatid cyst in his liver
but surgery is not favoured, the doctors said.
Mandela sometimes suffers from a mild secondary infection arising out
of a bout with tuberculosis in 1989 but an examination of his bone
marrow showed no evidence of malignancy or of the tuberculosis
recurring, they said.
Mandela's prostate was removed in 1984 and further surgery was
performed in 1990 but no sign of malignancy was found in this month's
tests.
In 1994, Mandela underwent surgery to remove a cataract in his right
eye and he currently uses a hearing aid due to some hearing loss, the
statement said.
"He will continue to be managed and carefully observed," the statement
said.
Whenever Mandela is out of the country, he is accompanied by a military
doctor who ensures the maintenance of his medical care as prescribed by
specialist advisors.
