Minor flap, phones ring in Seoul over US troop withdrawal report 
A South Korean newspaper created a minor flap here Thursday with a
front page report that US troops were preparing to pull out of South
Korea.
The report, carried by the Joong-Ang Daily, said mid-level planning had
begun for the phased pull-out of the 37,000 US forces here.
It set phones ringing non-stop at the main US base in Seoul, drew an
instant denial from the US 8th Army, and a more circumspect denial from
the South Korean Foreign Ministry.
"Neither the US embassy nor the US Forces Korea have been apprised of
such a plan," said the 8th Army release hastily faxed to foreign and
domestic news offices throughout Seoul.
"The story presented ... is absolutely wrong and irresponsible," it
said.
A South Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman denied the report as
"groundless" but said that Washington obviously planned to withdraw in
the long run, while the national Yonhap news agency churned out a spate
of comments by government officials.
"Right now there is no discussion on the withdrawal of US Forces, but
the issue will be revived as a matter of practical concern for us
sooner or later," the agency quoted an unnamed senior official as
saying, refering to the nuclear thaw.
The South Korean government feels a new safe-guard system is needed in
preparation for the eventual withdrawal, which is why it is considering
signing a peace treaty with North Korea, the official said.
Joon-Ang said the withdrawal planning was underway in line with the
Nunn-Warner bill passed by Congress in 1990, which projected a three
phase troop withdrawal through the year 2000.
The first phase withdrawal, of 7,000 troops, was completed in 1992 when
usually-hostile relations between North and South Korea eased in a
flurry of high-level bilateral meetings.
The massive joint defensive exercise "Team Spirit" was also cancelled
in 1992 amid the thaw, which lasted only until 1993 when the North
Korean military standoff fuelled mounting tensions.
Robert Gallucci, the top US negotiator with North Korea, and US Defence
Secretary William Perry have both said in the past month they are
aiming for a reduction in US forces.
But both have stressed that no move will be made until the North pulls
back the thousands of troops and artillery it has massed just North of
the Demilitarized Zone.
Perry, a strong advocate of "fight-and-talk" tactics, stressed here
last month that despite the easing of nuclear tensions due to the
signing of the October 21 Geneva accord which freezes the North's
nuclear program, the North's million strong standing army still posed a
major threat.
Most US ground forces in South Korea are in trip-wire positions just
south of the DMZ.
