British Gas restructures, sheds chief, separates contract liabilities 
British Gas, which faces huge liabilities over supply contracts signed
before it was privatised, is to be split into two companies under a
vast restructuring plan, it said on Tuesday.
And the company's chief executive, Cedric Brown, who became the target
of public outcry over big increases in his pay, is to retire.
The company said that the restructuring would break the company into
two distinct parts handling supplies to customers and gas production.
A new consumer-orientated entity, British Gas Energy, is to inherit
British Gas's position as the biggest gas supplier in Britain with
annual sales of about eight billion pounds (12 billion dollars).
A second company, TransCo International, is to be responsible for
exploration, production, gas transportation and storage. Analysts view
this as the more profitable of the two businesses.
Chairman Richard Giordano, commenting on the restructuring a decade
after British Gas was privatised, said: "This demerger is about the
creation of two separate companies that will manage our business more
effectively".
He was supported by Chancellor of the Exchequer, Kenneth Clarke, who
said that the move would ensure the provision of "cheaper gas to
consumers".
The restructuring, which must be agreed by shareholders at a meeting in
the spring of next year, precedes the opening of the British gas supply
industry to competition this year.
The plan to separate the more profitable gas exploration and production
sector is an attempt to protect British Gas from potential losses of
1.5 billion pounds (2.2 billion dollars) from contracts amounting to 40
billion pounds (60 billion dollars) to purchase surplus North Sea gas.
These contracts were drafted in the 1980s when gas prices were double
those of today.
The announcement that Brown is to retire in April was seen as an
attempt to close the chapter of controversy over his pay.
Brown has been the target of criticism since November 1994 when it
emerged that his salary had been increased by 75 percent to 492,602
pounds (738,000 dollars). This fed charges of executive "greed" in the
privatised industries from the opposition Labour party and trades
unions.
In recent weeks he has come under renewed pressure over allegations
that the company has failed to maintain customer services in the face
of an increase in competition.
Labour's opposition spokesman on the economy, Gordon Brown, called for
full disclosure of Brown's pension and termination arrangements to
"ensure he is not simply carrying the can, the fall guy for abuses that
remain unchecked elsewhere".
He added a further note of caution to the demerger plans by stressing
that it was up to Government to make sure customers did not suffer from
the reorganisation of British Gas.
The government aims to open the entire British domestic gas supply
industry to a free market by 1998.
