Chechens agree to arrest Budennovsk hostage-takers 
The rebel Chechen leadership has undertaken to help search for and
arrest the Chechen guerrillas who took hostages in Budennovsk, southern
Russia, Interfax news agency reported Thursday.
The agency, monitored by the BBC, said Usman Imayev, head of the
Chechen side at talks with Russian government representatives in
Grozny, capital of Chechnya, told a news conference that his delegation
will also make a statement denouncing all terrorist acts.
On Wednesday General Anatoly Kulikov, Russian commander in Chechnya,
threatened that Russia would end the ceasefire and withdraw from the
talks if the Chechen delegation did not denounce the raid on Budennovsk
within hours and hand over the guerrillas within three days.
The Russian government later repudiated Kulikov's statement, with Prime
Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin's press secretary Viktor Konnov being
quoted by ITAR-TASS news agency as saying that the general "is not in a
position to take a decision on the ending of the moratorium, because
fighting has been suspended on the orders of the head of government."
"Even if the Russian side is demanding that (guerrilla leader) Shamil
Basayev be handed over as a criminal, that is not a pretext to resume
the fighting," Konnov said.
Basayev's action in attacking Budennovsk and taking 1,500 people
hostage succeeded in forcing the Russians to agree to a ceasefire,
negotiate over the war and give him and his men a safe conduct back to
Chechnya.
Kulikov's ultimatum threatened a new stage of confrontation, just hours
after Russian and Chechen negotiators said there were real chances for
an end to the six-month war that has killed 15,000 to 30,000 people.
Chernomyrdin said Wednesday he was taking personal charge of the
overall peace negotiations, which started Monday, raising hopes of a
serious effort to find a settlement.
"The negotiations have begun and I shall conduct them and direct them,"
he said. "We shall hold talks with all necessary people if that helps
resolve the conflict in Chechnya."
He appeared to indicate that he might be ready to talk directly to
Chechen President Dzhokar Dudayev, something Moscow has so far refused
to do.
