'Now for the singles', says record-breaker Hingis 
Martina Hingis became the youngest-ever senior champion in the history
of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships here on Monday when she won the
women's doubles.
And no sooner had Switzerland's 15-year-old Hingis joined forces with
Helena Sukova of the Czech Republic and beaten fourth-seeds Larisa
Neiland of Latvia and Meredith McGrath of the United States 5-7, 7-5,
6-1 in their delayed final, than she made it clear her target now is
Steffi Graf's singles crown.
"It's great to win Wimbledon," said Hingis, who became the
youngest-ever Wimbledon title-winner with the win, "but one day I hope
it will be the singles."
The previous youngest Wimbledon champion was Britain's Lottie Dod who
won the women's singles in 1887 at the age of 15 years 285 days.
Hingis is three days younger than Dod.
Leading 4-1 in the third set when the final was stopped late Sunday,
the eighth-seeded Hingis and Sukova did not drop a game when play
resumed on Monday.
They were playing in their third tournament together and it was third
time lucky for the eighth-seeded pair who had been eliminated both in
Berlin and at the French Open by MgGrath and Neiland.
The start of play on Monday, made necessary because three events were
still undecided because of a series of rain delays during the
Championships, was delayed by fifteen minutes to allow spectators to
take their seats.
With entry free of charge, thousands poured into the ground and the
women's doubles final was completed in front of an enormous crowd of
around 12,000.
Asked if she intended to celebrate her victory, Hingis replied with a
smile: "We already started celebrating a little bit yesterday. We went
out for dinner and had some fun and we finished up pretty late last
night. I should have been in Jakarta today for the Fed Cup but it's
better to win a Grand Slam.
"I shall fly home to Zurich today and then fly to Indonesia tomorrow,"
said Hingis, who became the youngest-ever junior singles champion here
two years ago at the age of 13 years 276 days.
Promising French hope Amelie Mauresmo, who won the junior singles title
on Sunday, notched up a 'double' triumph at the Championships when she
joined Olga Barabanschikova of Belarus to beat third-seeded Americans
Lila Osterloh and Samantha Reeves 5-7, 6-3, 6-1 in the junior women's
doubles final.
