Japan to tell WTO of retaliatory plans in steel row with US
Japan will tell the World Trade Organisation (WTO) it plans to
retaliate against US tariffs on steel imports, marking the first time
it has taken such a move in a trade dispute, an official said Thursday.
"We plan to make the notification on Friday," said the government trade
official who declined to be named.
Japan plans to impose 100 percent tariffs worth 4.88 million dollars a
year on certain US steel products from June 18, he said, adding the
action would be averted if the two nations can settle the matter by
then.
"If the US tariffs are proved to be against WTO rules, our measures
would expand to 123.43 million dollars... although we have never
imposed retaliatory tariffs or even lodged (such a notification) with
the WTO in the past," he said.
US President George W. Bush announced in March he was applying tariffs
of up to 30 percent on most steel imports to protect the ailing US
steel industry, prompting Tokyo to lodged a complaint with the global
trade body.
It also triggered protests from the European Union, South Korea and
other nations.
Under WTO rules, Friday is the deadline for those countries to submit a
list of retaliatory measures as they have to notify them within 60 days
of the US measures.
Tokyo also plans to ask the WTO to set up a dispute-settlement panel
after May 20.
The Japanese move came after its trade minister Takeo Hiranuma failed
to come up with a solution during a telephone conversation with US
Trade Representative Robert Zoellick early Thursday.
Hiranuma was in Paris to attend a meeting of the Organisation for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
The European Commission said on Tuesday that it had lodged with the WTO
two lists of US products it plans to hit with retaliatory tariffs in
response to the US tariffs on foreign steel.
US products, including citrus fruits, certain steel products, rice and
some textiles could have 100 percent tariffs imposed on them from June
18 if the US fails to compensate the EU for its steel tariffs.
A second list is intended for more long-term implementation and
includes products such as dried fruits, apricots, paper and textiles.
These tariffs, which would be between eight and 30 percent, would take
effect if the US failed to withdraw the steel safeguards after a
possible condemnation by the WTO's dispute settlement body in 2003 at
the earliest.
