Bridegroom Costa thwarts Ferrero to take French Open title by Dave James
Spain's Albert Costa won the first Grand Slam title of his career and gave
himself a 735,000-dollar wedding present when he shrugged off battling
countryman Juan Carlos Ferrero to win the French Open title here on Sunday.
The 20th seeded Costa's 6-1, 6-0, 4-6, 6-3 win was completed in two
hours, 30 minutes against an opponent who, in the early stages, was
still suffering with an ankle injury that almost put him out of the
tournament before he played the second round.
The victory gave the 26-year-old Costa a timely 735,000-dollar winner's
cheque just five days before he is due to marry long-time girlfriend
Cristina Ventura, the mother of his one-year-old twin daughters Claudia
and Alma who were all court-side.
It was his 12th career title, all of which have come on clay, and it
broke a streak of 65 events spread over three years since he had won
his last crown.
"Although I haven't won on the tour for a while, I have been playing
well recently and I felt really good about my chances today," said
Costa whose best previous appearances at Roland Garros had been two
quarter-final spots in 1995 and 2000.
"I used the drop shot a lot today but it wasn't just because of his
injury. I knew that Juan Carlos is very solid on the baseline so I
wanted to bring him into the net more and more."
Costa also became the fifth Spanish winner in for the first two sets
although he avoided complete humiliation when he briefly rallied to
take the third set.
Overall it will be a match to forget for the 11th seed whose injury-hit
season finally came back to haunt him at the worst possible time as
stumbled through the first two sets.
"In the first two sets, I really felt the pain from my ankle and it
spread to all of my body. I had to take some aspirin because of it,"
said Ferrero.
"I made a lot of mistakes because of the pain in my leg and my stomach.
Then I improved a little bit and I played much better in the third set
and in the fourth I had some chances and some break points, but Albert
was the better player.
"Losing the first two sets meant I lost a lot of confidence and then a
lot of courage, but there will be other finals for me."
Costa settled quickly into the match and found his length and direction
easier than his 22-year-old opponent, who had been many people's
favourite for the title.
He broke twice in the first set to take it 6-1 in just 21 minutes when
Ferrero hit a forehand long.
Ferrero, bidding for his seventh career title, had his concentration
disturbed by a 20-minute rain delay after only two games and his
normally reliable forehand, so destructive in his earlier wins over
Andre Agassi and Marat Safin, completely deserted him.
The first set statistics told a tale of woe for Ferrero - he hit 14
unforced errors compared to just eight for Costa and just one winner to
Costa's 10.
Things got progressively worse in the second set as Costa, who knocked
out triple champion Gustavo Kuerten in the fourth round and last year's
runner-up Alex Corretja in the semi-final, enjoyed three breaks to win
it 6-0 in just 22 minutes.
The conclusion of that set meant Costa, who had gone into the match
with a 2-2 career record against Ferrero, had won 11 games in a row
since the rain break.
Ferrero hit 13 unforced errors to Costa's five in the second set and a
pitiful four winners.
However Ferrero temporarily stopped the rot in the third set when he
won the first game on his own serve before achieving a service break on
his first break point of the match to go ahead 2-0.
Costa broke straight back before Ferrero found some resilience by
saving four break points in the fifth game to edge ahead 3-2.
With the support of most of the 15,000 people watching on Philippe
Chatrier Court, Ferrero took the third set 6-4 when Costa could only
net an attempted drop shot.
It was an impressive recovery by Ferrero, playing in his first final
after being a semi-finalist here for the last two years, and the third
set statistics made happier reading as he hit 19 winners compared to
Costa's nine while he also began to find his range with his first
service - 71 percent success compared to 53 percent in the second set.
However, Costa reimposed his authority quickly in the fourth set going
up an early break to lead 2-1 as Ferrero saw a rasping forehand hit the
tape and fall back agonisingly on his side.
Ferrero battled back to level at 3-3 before Costa returned the
compliment to lead 4-3 and then held to love for 5-3.
He wasted one match point in the next game but took the title when
Ferrero, who only managed four winners in the fourth set,
double-faulted.
