Martinez Among Upset Victims In Slims
Martina Navratilova went into the swimming pool in her tennis togs
Friday. The Virginia Slims of Los Angeles tournament, at least as far
as top seeds and big draws go, went into the dumpster.
The good news is that the semifinalists today have relatively fresh new
faces and games.
The bad news is that, among them, this late in the year, the
semifinalists have won only three tournaments. For the first time ever,
the Slims will be won by someone not ranked in the world top 10.
In fact, there's nobody left in Manhattan Beach in the world top 17.
No. 1 seed Conchita Martinez of Spain, the Wimbledon champion, was
beaten in straight sets by Amy Frazier of Michigan 6-4, 7-6 (7-1).
No. 5 seed Zina Garrison-Jackson of Texas was beaten by Frazier's
friend since girlhood, Ann Grossman of Ohio, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2.
No. 4 seed Jana Novotna of the Czech Republic was ousted by Sabine
Appelmans of Belgium 6-4, 4-6, 6-4.
Martina Navratilova, the second seed who was eliminated by Grossman in
singles Thursday, couldn't stick around for doubles either. She and
partner Manon Bollegraf were beaten by Laura Golarsa-Mercedes Paz 6-7
(7-3), 6-4, 6-1, after which the losers took their impromptu dip in the
Manhattan Country Club pool.
(The plunge was certainly to cool off on a hot day. Perhaps it was also
to put an exclamation point on the last match the soon-to-retire
Navratilova would ever play in a tournament she has won eight times.)
Here's a brief poke through the tournament's rubble:
-- World Nos. 1, 2, 11 and 13, Steffi Graf, Arantxa Sanchex Vicario,
Gigi Fernandez and Amanda Coetzer, didn't enter.
-- Nos. 5, 7, 9, 10 and 15, Kimiko Date, Lindsay Davenport, Natalia
Zvereva, Gabriela Sabatini and Lori McNeil, withdrew because of injury.
-- No. 6 Mary Pierce withdrew because of a ``schedule change.''
-- Nos. 3, 4, 12 and 14, Martinez, Navratilova, Garrison-Jackson and
Anke Huber, were knocked out early.
The big surprise Friday was Frazier's win over Martinez, who had looked
invincible the night before in beating Elena Likhovtseva 6-0, 6-0.
Fearing Martinez's topspin forehand, Frazier played mostly to her
backhand.
``I think she made a few more errors today than she usually does and I
got a few free points,'' said Frazier. ``Usually she doesn't miss.
``I hit my ground strokes well and I was patient. Sometimes when I play
her I try to hit too good a shot too early, because she runs so well
and hits everything so deep.''
Grossman had her second straight big match at the Slims. After her
three-set upset of Navratilova, she had difficulty sleeping. Then she
took a long nap after a massage and had difficulty waking up from that.
But she was ready for Garrison-Jackson when their evening match rolled
around. Garrison-Jackson got angry numerous times at line calls and
umpire decisions, while Grossman, who has never won a tournament and is
ranked 46th in the world kept her head -- and her hard-hit baseline
shots.
``I felt it was an unbelievable match,'' said Grossman, ``especially
for the crowd. It was a great level of tennis.''
