Officials End Talks on Water, Environment 
The United States and the European Union have allocated dlrs 2.5
million to set up data banks to improve management of the Middle East's
water resources, a U.S. official said Thursday.
Richard LeBaron, a senior U.S. State Department official, said the
money will be spent over the next two years and that plans were under
way to raise further funding after that.
LeBaron spoke at the end of a four-day meeting of delegates from 42
countries to discuss water shortages in the the arid region and
environmental protection.
The talks were part of the second phase of the U.S.-sponsored
Arab-Israeli peace process, which began 4 1/2 years ago, and complement
negotiations between Israel and its immediate Arab neighbors: Syria,
Lebanon, Jordan and the Palestinians.
LeBaron, whose country chairs the water working group, said Germany was
working closely with Jordan, Israel and the Palestinians on studies to
assess water availability.
Luxembourg, Sweden and the Netherlands have projects to help regional
countries _ primarily the Palestinians _ better manage their water
resources, he told a news conference.
During the conference, he said, the United States and Oman agreed to
allocate dlrs 3 million each to establish a regional desalination
research center that would be based in the sultanate. He said the
center will be launched soon, but gave no date.
LeBaron said the time was ripe to launch some projects despite the
absence of Syria and Lebanon, which have refused to join regional talks
until tangible progress is made in their negotiations with Israel.
``Indeed, we've turned to a phase of implementation of practical
projects,'' he said. ``We're launching into that phase now and we don't
need for other people to be involved.
``All these projects are stretching for other countries to be involved
as they come into the process,'' he said, noting that funds were
available to launch some projects immediately.
A final communique said the EU, Switzerland and Japan, which heads a
working group on the protection of the environment, agreed to fund a
World Bank initiative to combat desertification in the region. No
figures were immediately available.
The three-page communique said Jordan, Egypt and Israel are
``continuing their efforts for a regional approach to establish centers
that will combat oil spills'' in the Red Sea shared by the three
countries.
