Netanyahu: Israel to Continue to Fight Terror 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed here this evening that
his government will continue to fight against terrorism.
Addressing a press conference after a special cabinet meeting,
Netanyahu said terrorism is still prevailing in this region and the
Israeli defense forces and security services will not only defend the
country but also fight against terror.
"Terrorism must be wiped out and there will be no safe heaven for
terrorism," he noted.
Netanyahu explained his government's success and "failure" in fighting
against terror, and said that the cabinet has decided to set up a
three-member committee to investigate the "failure", which apparently
refers to the failed attack by two agents of the Israeli security
services "Mossad" on Hamas leader Khaled Mashal last week in Amman,
Jordan.
Asked whether he would resign after the committee found that he is
responsible for the failure, he shouted angrily that his "sole
responsibility" is to fight terror.
He said his government would not conduct any negotiation with the
Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas), which he described as the main
sources of terror.
The Cabinet secretariat said this evening in a statement that the
three-member committee will examine all aspects related to the Amman
incident, both prior to, and during its occurrence.
The two agents, who conducted a bungled attack on Mashal on September
25 in Amman and were arrested in Jordan, returned home today after
being released by the Jordanian police.
Their release was carried out under a deal reached by Israel and
Jordan, in exchange for Israel's release of Hamas spiritual leader
Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and 20 other Hamas members jailed in Israel.
Netanyahu admitted that this failed attack operation has harmed
Israel's relationship with Jordan.
The Israeli side will continue to explain further about Israel's policy
of fighting terror to Amman in order to improve its relations with
Jordan, the Israeli prime minister said.
Political observers here said that Netanyahu so far does not want to
swallow the bitter outcome of the failed Amman incident due to his
hardline attitude, which would cause more damage to Israel's
international prestige.
