Jewish Anti-Deprecation League Protests New Woody Allen Movie
The Jewish Anti-Deprecation League picketed the New York premiere of Woody
Allen's latest film, Waltzing With Schopenhauer, Monday, arguing that it
"perpetuates misleading stereotypes of Jewish self-deprecation that do not
reflect the modern Jewish-American experience."
The JADL is decrying Allen's portrayal of the film's lead character,
Reuben Hirschhorn, a Columbia University creative-writing professor
who, despite achieving considerable personal and career success, is
plagued by severe self-doubt, hypochondria, perceived sexual
inadequacies, an inability to commit to long-term relationships,
existential angst, an obsessive fear of death, and disturbing dreams
involving his overbearing mother making chicken soup for Nazi
propaganda minister Josef Goebbels.
"Mr. Allen has made a career out of presenting his own foibles and
insecurities as characteristic of all Jews," JADL executive director
Howard Klosterman said. "Jews are tired of seeing themselves routinely
represented as neurotics who can't enjoy their lives, no matter how
successful, and Mr. Allen is one of the primary perpetrators of this
offensive cliche."
Continued Klosterman: "Contrary to what Mr. Allen would have you
believe, not all Jews are twice-divorced, self-loathing urban types
suffering from deep existential angst. I, for one, have not spent my
life tormented by a crippling lack of self-esteem. But thanks in no
small part to the images presented in the films of Mr. Allen, non-Jews
continue to perceive us as manic-depressive nebbishes who wallow in our
own despair and misery."
Though Klosterman acknowledged that he had not yet seen Waltzing With
Schopenhauer, he said that based on what he knows of the film, "it
looks like Allen is up to his old tricks."
"In the trailer, Allen is berated by his two ex-wives, moderates an
imaginary debate in his bathroom between Bix Beiderbecke and Sidney
Bechet, and whines about how his favorite deli hasn't been the same
since it was purchased by a Japanese investment group," Klosterman
said. "If that doesn't tell you something, nothing will."
In the film, Allen's lead character is forced into retirement when
Columbia replaces him with a younger, non-tenured professor. Attempting
to make the best of the situation by indulging in his favorite
pastimes, reading Kafka and attending Bergman film festivals,
Hirschhorn soon grows bored and doubtful, eventually questioning his
long-held perceptions of life. Vowing to "strip away all those silly
old beliefs and start from scratch," he takes a job as a clerk at a
Coney Island amusement park. While there, he is tormented by vivid
flashbacks and recollections of his childhood and previous marriages.
The supporting cast includes Edward Norton, Jeff Goldblum, Minnie
Driver, Kathy Bates, Gretchen Mol, Alan Alda, Louise Lasser, Carol
Kane, John Glover, Bob Balaban, Bill Paxton, Laura San Giacomo, Lisa
Kudrow, Stanley Tucci, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Janeane Garofalo, Miriam
Margolyes, Judy Davis, John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Anjelica Huston, Peter
Fonda, Forest Whitaker, Susan Sarandon, Tim Robbins, Anne Heche, Jason
Alexander, George Segal, Dianne Wiest and Jeanne Tripplehorn.
Appearing on PBS' Charlie Rose Monday, longtime Allen producer Jean
Doumanian defended the film.
"The fact that the JADL hasn't even seen Waltzing With Schopenhauer
makes its condemnation all the more absurd, because the movie is
actually a string of charming vignettes about life in New York,"
Doumanian said. "For example, there's an absolutely delicious scene in
Washington Square in which Leon Trotsky and Frida Kahlo dance to Bunny
Berrigan's 'King Porter Stomp.'"
Nevertheless, according to an inside source speaking on condition of
anonymity, Waltzing's distributor, Sony Pictures Classics, has
threatened to withhold the film from release unless Allen removes or
alters several scenes that could be construed as offensive to Jews.
"Sony is pressuring Allen to make significant script changes, including
a totally new ending, in which an old high-school friend runs into
Reuben and convinces him to move to his Jewish, upper middle-class
Denver suburb. Freed from the angst that dominates his Manhattan life,
Reuben opens a bookstore/coffee shop, which becomes very popular.
Energized by his newfound success, he marries his attractive blonde
assistant and overcomes his destructive obsessions with existentialism,
art and early jazz, abandoning such longtime heroes as Freud and Marx
for more positive, contemporary Jewish role models like Steven
Spielberg and Calvin Klein."
Allen issued a brief statement about the controversy.
"Jesus," Allen said. "This is ridiculous. I mean, did they tell
Kierkegaard, 'Hey, lay off on that 'existence precedes essence'
stuff-it won't play in the suburbs and besides, there's no
merchandising hook'? I mean, Calvin Klein? Why not Aaron Spelling? Or
the Golem? Or, better yet, Albert Speer? Jesus."
