Tanzania closes border with Burundi to halt Rwandan refugees
Tanzania closed its border with Burundi Friday to halt tens of
thousands of Rwandan refugees fleeing camps in northern Burundi after
murderous clashes between rival Hutu and Tutsi communities.
An official with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Dar
es Salaam, contacted by telephone, said the government had sent troops
to seal off the border and that Tanzania's minister of defence was in
the area coordinating operations.
A spokesman for President Ali Hassan Mwinyi told AFP the government had
not announced the border closure, but was not denying it.
The UN refugee commissioner, Sadako Ogata, issued a statement in Geneva
calling on all governments in the region "to respect the principle of
safe asylum."
She also urged the international community "to support the efforts made
by the countries of the region to meet their obligations."
The exodus from the camps in northern Burundi started Tuesday after a
machete, knife and grenade attack on one of the camps that left 12 dead
and 22 wounded, and ethnic clashes in Bujumbura that resulted in up to
500 deaths.
That prompted the flight of tens of thousands of Burundian Hutus and
Zaireans toward Zaire and the precipitate departure for "holidays" of
several hundred expatriates.
The clashes have sharpened fears that the tiny central African nation
may plunge into full-scale civil war on the scale of the fighting in
neighbouring Rwanda last year, when Hutu soldiers and militiamen
butchered more than half a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus before
being defeated by Tutsi rebels.
Both countries have approximately the same ethnic mix: 85 percent Hutu
and 14 percent Tutsi. In Burundi, the Tutsis controlled the army and
government until 1993 when a first ever Hutu president was installed in
office.
Some 45,000 of the 200,000 Rwandan refugees in Burundi were on the road
between the camps and the Tanzanian border Friday, UNHCR Nairobi
spokesman Peter Kessler told AFP.
The refugees -- all Hutus -- were carrying meagre rations on their
heads and sleeping by the roadside, he said, adding that for the
elderly and the infirm it was a four-day trek.
Some 3,200 had crossed over into Tanzania by early Friday, before the
border was sealed, Kessler said. The UNHCR official in the Tanzanian
capital added that it was likely some others would be able to "sneak
through" because of the length of the border.
In all, more than two million Rwandan refugees are living in camps in
neighbouring countries, 590,000 of them in Tanzania.
Relief workers had been planning to direct the latest wave to
Tanzania's Kitali camp, close to the border, set up early this year to
house 28,000 refugees from Burundi and 12,000 from Rwanda.
The medical charity Medecins sans Frontieres reported meanwhile that it
was setting up an ambulance system to pick up the weak and the sick,
and was establishing health posts every 15 kilometres (nine miles)
along the refugee route.
"No one knows exactly how many more refugees will leave the camps, but
we can certainly expect thousands more," said coordinator Mady Diallo
before the news came that the border was closed.
Kessler said earlier that UNHCR field workers were at the camps in
Burundi trying to persuade people to stay, or at least to leave in an
orderly manner.
"The field workers are trying to tell them they are there to monitor
their safety and will stand by them," he said.
One of the seven camps, Mugara, was now completely empty, he added.
Rations in the camps in Burundi and neighbouring countries have already
been slashed by around half as a result of "donor fatigue," leading
relief agencies to warn of impending famine.
The UN World Food Programme alone has a shortfall of 127 million
dollars and 236,000 tonnes of food for its programmes in the area for
the rest of the year, but it said Friday that donors "appear to be
responding very favourably" to a new appeal launched on March 10.
The refugees are receiving food producing only 1,000 calories a day,
Kessler said, but it appeared most of those fleeing had waited for
rations to be distributed before leaving.
The Organisation of African Unity and French-speaking states have both
decided to send mediating missions to Burundi.
The UN Security Council warned extremists they could face an
international tribunal, but made no move toward sending in UN troops,
as they did in Rwanda, where some 5,500 Blue Helmets remain.
