Woeful British tennis comes under fire
When an Englishman is abroad, his thoughts turn to home and when it
comes to the state of British tennis, opinions are heartfelt and
uncompromising.
Nigel Sears is such a man. Now in charge of the blossoming career of
Slovakia's Daniel Hantuchova, the former national coach of the British
squad still retains a fondness for the sport back home.
But, like many, he believes that radical surgery is required if Britain
is ever to uncover a diamond like his 18-year-old Bratislava girl.
"The whole system in Britain needs a shake-up and it has to be radical.
They could learn a lot from countries like Slovakia who don't have
anywhere near the same resources.
"They take care of the essentials and concentrate on the right things
with the right players.
"It's all a matter of having the right judgement. There has to be
strong leadership to make the difficult decisions needed to take the
whole thing forward," said Sears who has been in charge of Hantuchova's
career for the last eight months.
Before that, he worked with Britain's much-maligned Lawn Tennis
Association (LTA), which oversees the sport in the country, as national
coach as well as being in charge of the Olympic squad.
Little Slovakia has five players in the top 100 and two in the top
thirty, with Hantuchova standing at 27 - up from 108 just over a year
ago - and the more experienced Henrieta Nagyova three places above her.
You have to look a long way down the list to find the highest ranked
British player - Julie Pullin at 162.
"People in Britain are very frustrated with the situation. There are
some people who don't have a clue what's going on or how things work.
"I will always be thankful to the LTA for giving me the experience and
the opportunity to see and learn. But there are some people who are on
the outside of the system whose experience is not being used and that's
a shame."
Ironically, on the second round by Italy's Francesca Schiavone.
"That was the worst I have ever seen her play. Everything had been
going so well recently. There was a great opportunity to move on in
this tournament. She just didn't execute her opportunities - it was a
horror," added Sears who had seen Hantuchova knock out seventh-seed
Magdalena Maleeva in the first round here.
It was particularly disappointing for the Slovak girl - at the
Australian Open last month, she had taken the first set off world
number two Venus Williams in her third round match before going down in
three sets.
"There wasn't much in that match, just a few points. That's why I'm
really excited about the future," said Sears.
He will be overseeing her progress again next week in Antwerp. Britain
will also be watching with interest.
