Widespread Arrests Condemned by Unions, Defended by Mubarak 
Egyptian unions on Wednesday condemned the arrests of dozens of labor
leaders and mainstream Muslim activists, accused by the government of
supporting Islamic militants. Egypt's president warned the opposition
to ease its criticism.
In a nationally televised speech, President Hosni Mubarak defended the
government's handling of the three-year Islamic insurgency that has
left more than 550 people dead. He described extremists' attacks on
security forces as a ``rabid campaign.''
Human rights groups and opposition parties in recent months have
objected to government tactics in dealing with Islamic militants,
including mass arrests, curfews and house demolitions.
The confrontation has been fiercest in southern Egypt.
Mubarak also warned opposition groups to stay in line.
``The honest opposition criticizes and advises, but it does not
fabricate and instigate,'' Mubarak said. ``It is committed to the
limits of legitimacy and does not cross them.''
Referring to the arrests of government opponents, Mubarak said he was
upset that ``some elements, who we know are committed to democracy and
realize the danger to the nation from these (extremist) groups, are
participating in this unfair campaign.''
The government, sensitive to criticism by Islamic groups, has cracked
down hard on the opposition, arresting a well-known Islamic writer in
December and detaining 28 members of the mainstream Muslim Brotherhood,
Egypt's largest Islamic fundamentalist group.
The government has accused the brotherhood, which is outlawed but
tolerated, of links to more radical Islamic groups. The brotherhood
also has a strong presence in Egyptian unions.
The Engineers Syndicate said Wednesday that more than 100 engineers are
now under arrest.
``It is amazing that the authorities' persecution of Islamists under
the excuse of dealing with violence and terrorism has overstepped
itself and reached the moderate leaders that have become the victims of
the government's violence,'' it said.
The Syndicate of Scientific Professions said Wednesday that 20 of its
members were under arrest.
Thousands more Muslim extremists have been arrested. The government
says 3,000 are in jail, but opposition parties put the number much
higher.
Mubarak, in the 35-minute speech, praised the security forces' handling
of Muslim extremists. He gave medals to the families of dozens of
policemen killed in the confrontation with the radicals.
``We have not taken a negative position toward the opposition,'' he
said. ``But we differentiate between a legitimate opposition ... and
another opposition whose aim is to destroy.''
