Burstein Brings An Edge To Attorney General
Karen S. Burstein, candidate for state attorney general, stretched out
her hand, but the man in the brown suit strode by without a smile.
``You know, that's rude,'' Ms. Burstein said. She repeated: ``It is
rude.''
Another potential voter emerged from the Upper West Side subway station
with three unlit cigarettes sticking from his lips. ``All three you're
going to smoke?'' she asked. He did not look at her.
``Would it hurt to shake a hand?'' she asked in mock exasperation,
smiling at yet another man. He also walked by. ``It apparently would.''
``I've got to get these people better prepared as human beings,'' she
muttered finally after a tough half-hour of campaigning at 72d Street
and Broadway. ``As attorney general, I've got to do something about
this absence of civility,''
It was classic Karen Burstein: brash, funny and unconventional, a smart
skepticism combined with an abiding belief that government can make
people better. The subway campaign stop, a mainstay of politicians,
underscored something else that applies equally to her three opponents
in the Democratic primary next month: Ms. Burstein, 52, is relatively
unknown to the general public, even after 21 years in the Legislature,
as head of state and city agencies and as a Family Court judge.
But as the four candidates compete in an expensive and potentially
divisive dance of self-definition, Ms. Burstein is staking out ground
that some political analysts say puts her at an early, though
tentative, advantage. Among her opponents, G. Oliver Koppell, appointed
attorney general in December after the mid-term retirement of Robert
Abrams, is wrapping himself in his short incumbency and his party's
blessing. Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, is touting
his record as a prosecutor. Eliot L. Spitzer, a young former
prosecutor, is also running a law-and-order campaign with a touch of
anti-politician fervor.
But in addition to her claim that she has the widest experience, Ms.
Burstein has what some consider a biological edge this year: she is the
only woman running for a spot on a currently all-male Democratic
ticket. (The Republicans have two women running this year.) She is also
Jewish and is considered the most progressive candidate, in a primary
that traditionally has a heavy Jewish vote and usually attracts the
more liberal voters in the Democratic Party.
``I would say she has got to be perceived as a very serious candidate,
and I bet Ollie Koppell doesn't sleep well at night thinking about
her,'' said former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who appointed Ms. Burstein as
the city's auditor general in 1987.
The race, however, has barely begun, and Ms. Burstein brings a bag of
potential weaknesses. She decided to run late, and fund raising has
admittedly been slow. She has virtually no establishment support. A
former Vietnam War protester and civil rights marcher, she is described
as impatient and intense, almost a caricature of an upstater's image of
New York City. Her slogan for her first political campaign, during the
Vietnam War, was: ``I'm 28, I'm running for Congress and I'm angrier
than you.''
``She comes at you with the same intensity, whether it's to ask for a
cup of coffee or to get across some passion-felt position of hers,''
one political friend said, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``It's
like she's running on all eight pistons at one time.'' Others say she
has mellowed with age.
She is a lesbian, a fact she has neither advertised nor concealed, but
that hangs as an unknown element in a campaign that may test the
state's prejudices and her opponents' restraint. With little fanfare,
she has asked for support from gay groups but has not promoted her
sexual orientation as a centerpiece of her campaign.
In an interview in her campaign offices, Ms. Burstein said her
qualifications and ideas -- her vision of law as ``a civilizing
principle'' for society -- are more relevant than her sexuality. But
she added that she believes it will be an issue, stated or not.
``There are a couple of people for whom it will be like the excuse,''
she said. ``They didn't like me because I was a woman, they didn't like
me because I was Jewish, they didn't like me because I was too
liberal.''
She snapped her fingers, looking serious. ``It's easy,'' she said.
``You know, I'm a lesbian.''
``Frankly it's inexcusable that the state of New York hasn't elected a
woman statewide in 20 years,'' she said, referring to the 1974 election
of Mary Anne Krupsak as lieutenant governor. ``But do I intend to say,
`Hey, if you elect me I will be the first woman in 20 years, plus I
will be the first openly gay person?' No, but I don't really have much
choice about it. The truth of it is, the papers will say it.''
