Hong Kong legal chief in bid to block legislators' probe 
Hong Kong's attorney-general intervened Tuesday in a bid to prevent
lawmakers from forcing the government to hand over secret documents on
the abrupt retirement of the former immigration chief.
The move by Attorney-General Jeremy Mathews appeared to set the
government of Governor Chris Patten on a collision course with the
territory's assembly in a simmering months-long scandal.
The Legislative Council has summoned Chief Secretary Anson Chan to a
hearing on Thursday and asked her to bring the documents -- a report
from Hong Kong's anti-corruption squad -- with her.
The assembly has set up a select committee to investigate the sudden
retirement last July of director of immigration Lawrence Leung.
The government said at the time that Leung quit for "personal reasons"
but, unusually, his resignation became effective immediately.
It later emerged Leung was under investigation for his business
dealings and was given an ultimatum to leave or be fired.
Since then legislators have been given some information on the case in
private, but are seeking full disclosure.
Court officials said Mathews Tuesday filed a miscellaneous proceedings
application to the High Court, seeking an order to exempt certain
government officials from producing the report by the Independent
Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) before the select committee.
"The application states that the ICAC report to the operations review
committee is covered by public interests immunity," Mathews told AFP.
"Since it has been lodged, I'm not able to say much more."
He said he had no date from the court for a ruling, adding it "will
take a few days."
Chan has already refused the committee's request for the documents,
likewise citing public interest, immunity and the need to protect ICAC
operations.
Independent legislator Emily Lau said it was "quite wrong for the
government to fight tooth and nail not to reveal some of these
documents. The government should be more accountable."
She said she was particularly bemused Patten would endorse the action.
"One of the things Patten has done for Hong Kong is make the
administration more accountable, but now in the final weeks (of British
rule) we have this," she told AFP.
