Pakistan slams US report on Chinese aided missile factory 
Pakistan on Tuesday slammed as "fabricated" and misleading a US
newspaper report that it was secretely building a missile factory with
Chinese help near the northern city of Rawalpindi.
A foreign office spokesman said the report carried by the Washington
Post on Sunday was aimed at maligning Pakistan and China and to divert
attention from India's "vigorous pursuit" of its nuclear and ballistic
programme.
The Washington Post, citing unidentified US officials, said China was
secretly helping Pakistan to build a factory near Rawalpindi.
The report said the factory would be able to produce most of the major
components of a missile based on the Chinese-designed M-11 medium range
missile within two years.
"This report is baseless and misleading," the foreign office spokesman
said in a statement.
He said the newspaper had previously carried "a series of factually
inaccurate reports attributed to US intelligence leaks."
"These reports are fabricated with a view to maligning Pakistan and
China and to deflect international attention from India's vigorous
pursuit of its nuclear and ballistic weapons programme, especially its
role in sabotaging negotiations on the CTBT (Comprehensive Test Ban
Treaty) in the conference on disarmament in Geneva," he said.
India registered its veto of the CTBT in Geneva, saying New Delhi
opposed the draft because it did not set out a timeframe for destroying
the nuclear warheads of the United States, Russia, Britain, France and
China.
The Chinese foreign ministry on Monday denounced the Washington Post
report as "totally groundless" and Pakistan's Foreign Minister Sardar
Aseff Ahmed Ali told the English language daily The News the report was
"false and malicious."
But Ali also said Pakistan reserved the right to develop its own
resources to meet its defence needs.
The United States on Monday rejected the denials.
"We make our decisions based on our own information gathering," State
Department spokesman Glyn Davies said. "The fact that China and
Pakistan have made public announcements won't alter the course of
events from our standpoint."
Reports in the US media quoting intelligence sources last year said
Pakistan had aquired nuclear capable M-11 missiles from China.
That report was also denied by China and Pakistan.
