Report on National Economic, Social Development Plans (1) 
Following is the full text of the report on the implementation of the
2000 Plan for National Economic and Social Development and on the draft
2001 Plan for National Economic and Social Development, delivered by
Zeng Peiyan, minister in charge of the State Development Planning
Commission, at the Fourth Session of the Ninth National People's
Congress on March 6, 2001. Fellow Deputies,
As requested by the State Council, I shall now make a report to this
session on the implementation of the 2000 Plan for National Economic
and Social Development and on the Draft 2001 Plan for National Economic
and Social Development. This is presented to you for your examination
and approval and for comments and suggestions from members of the
National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative
Conference. I. Implementation of the 2000 Plan for National Economic
and Social Development The people of all ethnic groups in China worked
hard together during the past year under the correct leadership of the
Chinese Communist Party, scoring notable achievements in national
economic and social development. The economy as a whole took an
important turn for the better as it entered a beneficial cycle. The
plan was satisfactorily implemented.
The national economy continued to grow rapidly and there was continuous
improvement in the quality of growth and in economic performance. In
2000, China's GDP hit 8.9404 trillion yuan, representing an increase of
8% over the previous year, up by 0.9 percentage points. The overall
fall in prices was arrested and prices became stable, with consumer
prices rising by 0.4%. Total profits of state-owned and large non-state
industrial enterprises reached 426.2 billion yuan, an increase of 86.2%
over the preceding year, with profits of state-owned enterprises and
enterprises with the controlling share held by the state amounting to
239.2 billion yuan, an increase of 140%. The sales rate for
manufactured goods was 97.71%, a rise of 0.46 percentage points over
the previous year.
