Yugoslavia-Croatia mutual recognition
The rump Yugoslav state and Croatia pressed ahead Wednesday with
last-minute negotiations to meet a deadline for bilateral recognition
by the end of the week.
Territorial and money questions lie at the heart of most of the
outstanding problems.
Yugoslavia, now consisting of Serbia and Montenegro, and Croatia, a now
independent former part of the old Yugoslav state, are at odds over a
strip of land on the Adriatic Sea and the problem of how to divide up
property inherited from the former Yugoslav confederation from which
they emerged.
Croatian foreign ministry sources said of the talks: "We're on the last
stretch. They are at a stage where they can only fail or succeed
completely."
The territorial problem concerns Prevlaka, a Croatian peninsula that
borders on Montenegro and is claimed by Yugoslavia for security reasons
because it dominates an important Yugoslav naval base in Montenegro.
Prevlaka is currently occupied by UN observers.
Croatia has agreed to treat the Prevlaka problem as a security one, and
has proposed a special dimilitarised status for the peninsula.
The source told AFP: "This is the last limit to which we will go."
He said Belgrade's proposals of territorial exchanges between
Yugoslavia, Croatia and the Republika Srpska -- the Bosnian Serb entity
in Bosnia -- were not acceptable to Croatia.
As far as the division of property from the former state was concerned,
Croatia was seeking to include wording in the recognition treaty which
would acknowledge Croatian national and historic continuity.
Such a formula, sources said, would eliminate Belgrade's accusation
that Croatia had seceded from the former Yugoslav state.
This accusation had in turn been interfering with Croatian claims to
property dating from the former Confederation, the source stressed.
Humanitarian problems of missing persons and the return of refugees are
also dogging negotiations. But the Zagreb government says a favourable
settlement can be reached.
Croatia declared its independence from former Yugolsavia in late June
1991 and bitter fighting developed between it and rump Yuogslavia until
the early days of the following year.
The Zagreb news agency Hina reported that Croatian and Yugoslav expert
commisssions had agreed to proceed by September 15 at the latest to a
final exchange of information on the fate of missing persons during the
conflict.
President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia and and Serbian President Slobodan
Milosevic agreed on August 7 at a summit near Athens on the principle
of normalisation of relations.
The two states are the last of those to emerge from the former Yuogslav
Confederation not to have recognised each other bilaterally.
Tudjman put forward August 23 -- this Friday -- as the deadline for
signature of an accord, but Belgrade has not confirmed this date.
Croatian government sources here said a planned visit this coming
Friday by Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic to sign an accord
depended entirely on the success of current negotiations.
