State witnesses ordered to stand down in Zambia treason trial 
The trial of eight prominent Zambian opposition members on treason and
murder charges was adjourned for a day Tuesday after state witnesses
failed to follow court procedures.
Justice Peter Chitengi granted the adjournment after defence lawyers
for the members of the opposition United National Independence Party
(UNIP) raised three objections and three state witnesses were ordered
to stand down.
The testimonies of a government soil scientist, an intelligence officer
and a third witness of one of the bombings allegedly orchestrated by
the group were all rejected by Chitengi, after interventions by the
defence.
The eight UNIP officials were arrested in early june this year and
charged with five counts of treason, including trying to change the
constitution of Zambia by force, and bombing the offices of state-run
Times of Zambia and the Intercontinental Hotel.
All eight deny the charges.
On Tuesday, Chitengi ordered government soil scientist Mulota Damasheke
to stand down after the official claimed he certified the soil contents
from one of the spots where a bomb allegedly exploded.
The judge demanded that the actual person who analysed the soil to
testify before the court.
Chitengi later threw out another witness who brought the transcribed
report of an anonymous call to a local independent newspaper reporting
the existence of a bomb at the Intercontinental Hotel, after the
defence asked for the original tape to be analysed.
The third state witness, intelligence officer, Lewis Kaputula was
rejected after he tried to give evidence outside his original report.
The UNIP leaders facing the treason charge include its vice president,
chief Inyambo Yeta, Robson Chongo, former finance minister and Muhabi
Lungu, press assistant to former Zambian president Kenneth Kaunda.
Others are retired brigadier general, Joseph Chintomfwa, another
retired general, Nicholas Zulu, former intelligence officer Patrick
Goma, former captain in the Zambian air force, Selemani Banda-Mpangula
and Morris Kaulungombe, head of Kaunda's personal security.
Treason is punishable by death in Zambia.
The trial is expected to resume Wednesday.
