IRA claims Osnabrueck mortar bomb attack 
The Irish Republican Army (IRA) claimed responsibility Sunday for a
mortar bomb attack on a British army base in Osnabrueck, western
Germany, two days earlier.
The claim was made in a statement to the Irish state broadcaster RTE.
"The attack mounted against the military installation was carried out
by one of our units," said the statement, signed by "P. O'Neill, IRA"
-- an IRA codename regularly used for such claims of responsibility.
Friday's attack on the Quebec Barracks, in which three mortars were
fired from the back of a British-registered van parked outside the
compound, caused extensive damage to buildings but no injuries.
The IRA had been widely suspected, both in Britain and by German
police, of carrying out the attack.
(In Germany, police issued an appeal for witnesses to come forward with
information about the van -- a white and grey Ford Transit with the
British registration G74 OHD.)
The attack coincided with a Group of Seven industrialized nations'
summit in Lyons, France where terrorism was put at high on the agenda
at the behest of the United States after the bombing of a US military
base in Saudi Arabia.
It also came eight days after the discovery of an IRA weapons centre in
County Laois, in central Ireland. Four people were arrested, but of
greater interest was the seizure of what police called a new type of
mortar.
Jane's Intelligence Review described the Mark 17 mortar as being one of
the deadliest weapons in the IRA arsenal. It was developed during the
17-month IRA ceasefire and tested in the Irish countryside.
The ceasefire ended in February with a car bomb attack in London's
Docklands financial district that left two people dead.
Seven other attacks or attempted attacks in Britain followed,
threatening to detail the Northern Irish peace process -- from which
Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA, has been excluded.
But Friday's incident was the first by the IRA outside Britain in six
years.
In 1987-90, the IRA regularly hit British forces stationed in Germany.
One of the most serious incidents was in March 1987 when 30 were
wounded by a car bomb at a British military headquarters in
Rheindahlen.
The last IRA attack on the European continent was in 1990, when two
Australian tourists, mistakenly taken to be British soliders, were
killed in their car in the Netherlands.
