Arafat, Yemeni president discuss peace process, Jerusalem 
PLO chief Yasser Arafat held talks here Wednesday with Yemeni President
Ali Abdallah Saleh on the status of Jerusalem and extending Palestinian
self-rule on the West Bank, Yemen's SABA news agency said.
Saleh said Yemen supported the Palestinian people and the peace process
with the goal of enabling Arabs to recover their "legitimate rights in
Palestine, Syria and Lebanon."
After talks Arafat told journalists that an Arab mini-summit called
over Israel's proposed land grab in annexed east Jerusalem "had been
postponed not cancelled, in that the issue still remains alive."
He said before leaving Yemen that the issue of land confiscations
"needs more western and international support to force Israel to give
in to what was agreed with the Palestinian Authority."
The Palestinian leadership had urged the UN Security Council to keep
the issue on the agenda.
A mini-summit had been planned for May 27 in Morocco to discuss
Israel's confiscation of Palestinian land in east Jerusalem and a
proposal to transfer the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
The meeting was postponed indefinitely after the Israeli government
suspended land seizures.
Zakaria al-Agha, the Palestinian self-rule housing minister travelling
with Arafat, said an Arab summit on Jerusalem was still needed because
"contacts made by Mr. Arafat and other Arab leaders are insufficient to
deal with the dangerous situation."
Yemen, a PLO ally, hosted thousands of soldiers in the Palestine
Liberation Army, many of whom joined the police force set up when
Palestinian self-rule began last year in the Gaza Strip and West Bank
town of Jericho.
During their talks Arafat and Saleh discussed the latest developments
in the peace process and "Israeli obstacles," SABA said.
Arafat arrived here from Saudi Arabia where sources said he had sought
financial support for Palestinian police which will deploy in the West
Bank following an Israeli army withdrawal.
Arafat met Saudi Arabia's King Fahd and Hamad Algabid, secretary
general of the Organization of Islamic Conference, in Jeddah on
Tuesday.
The PLO leader was due later Wednesday in Tunis for meetings with the
executive committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization as well as
the central committee of his own Fatah faction, an advisor in Gaza
said.
