U.S. Trade Deficit Surges to Another Record in May
U.S. trade deficit soared to another record of 21.3 billion dollars in May
as world oil prices jumped to their highest level since late 1997, the
Commerce Department reported Tuesday.
The Department said that May deficit shot up a 14.8 percent increase
from the 18.6 billion dollars deficit in April.
U.S. imports of goods and services climbed 2.2 percent to a record high
of 98.9 billion dollars in May, reflecting higher oil prices and a big
jump in auto shipments.
Meanwhile, U.S. exports fell 0.8 percent to 77.6 billion dollars as
demand dropped sharply for commercial aircraft, farm products and
USA-made autos.
So far this year, the U.S. trade deficit is running at an annual rate
of 225 billion dollars, more than one-third higher than last year's
record high of 164.3 billion dollars.
U.S. manufacturers and farmers have been battered by the world
financial turmoil, which forced U.S. companies to compete with a flood
of cheaper imports. Manufacturing sector has cut 488,000 jobs since
March 1998 and farmers are suffering their worst economic crisis in a
decade.
However, the overall U.S. economy has continued to post robust growth
as consumer spending has remained strong.
The trade deficit in goods and service has set a record in four of the
last five months, reflecting the fact that a strong U.S. economy has
propelled demand for imports while U.S. companies and farmers have seen
their overseas sales shrink.
Prices of imported crude oil have rebounded in recent months, sending
U.S. oil bill sharply higher.
The price of crude oil jumped to 14.54 dollars a barrel in May, up from
12.71 dollars in April and the highest price since December 1997.
Rising crude prices offset a smaller volume of imported oil to boost
the bill for foreign oil by 12.8 percent, to 5.3 billion dollars.
Imported autos and auto parts were up 6 percent in May to 14.5 billion
dollars.
The decline in U.S. exports included a drop of 221 million dollars in
sales of commercial aircraft, a drop of 283 million dollars in sales of
consumer goods and a fall of 129 million dollars in sales of U.S.
autos.
Also, farm sales fell by 29 million dollars with exports of meat, rice
and corn all down.
The U.S. deficit with Japan shrank by 6.7 percent in May to 5.3 billion
dollars but for the first five months of this year is still running 6.5
percent above the 1998 levels.
But the May deficit with Western Europe rose to 3.6 billion dollars,
the biggest imbalance since July 1998. Rising trade tensions with
Europe have led the Clinton administration to impose economic sanctions
on more than 300 million dollars in European luxury imports in disputes
involving U.S. banana companies and beef producers.
The deficit with Mexico in May climbed to 2.2 billion dollars, the
second-highest level on record.
Analysts said that the swelling trade deficit might fuel the
government's worry of growing cries for protection from U.S.
industries, ranging from steel producers to apple growers.
