British growth will slow in 1998 to 2.7 percent
The British economy will grow strongly next year, driven by high
consumer spending, but the pace of expansion will ease in 1998, the
main employers' organisation, the Confederation of British Industry
(CBI) predicted on Thursday.
In its latest report on the British economy, the CBI forecast that
gross domestic product (GDP) in Britain would grow by 2.4 percent this
year, and would would accelerate to 3.1 percent in 1997 before easing
to 2.7 percent in 1998.
The forecasts are based on a strong rate of growth in consumer
expenditure, which is likely to be boosted next year by tax cuts and
"windfall" gains handed out to members of mutually-owned building
societies as they convert to banks.
Unemployment, which has already fallen from a peak of nearly three
million in 1992 to 2.03 million in October this year, should fall
beneath the psychological barrier of two million by the end of this
year, dipping to 1.71 million in 1997 and down to 1.64 million the next
year, the CBI predicted.
However, the CBI said the government would not reach its target of
reducing underlying inflation to 2.5 percent or below by spring 1997,
and keeping it at that level.
Underlying inflation would not fall to 2.5 percent until the end of
next year, and then will pick up to 2.9 percent by the end of 1998, the
CBI forecast.
The employers' organisation said interest rates must rise to rein in
inflationary pressures.
The Bank of England would increase its base rate by a quarter of a
point to 6.25 percent in the first quarter of 1997, the CBI believes,
then to 6.5 percent in the second half of next year and to 7.0 percent
in 1998.
The CBI's chief economic advisor Kate Barker said that in spite of a
tightening of fiscal policy in Clarke's 1997-98 budget presented in
November, the overall cut in taxation will strengthen already robust
consumer demand.
"If consumer spending rises in line with our forecasts, this may put
upward pressure on underlying inflation over the next two years," she
said.
Official figures published on Thursday showed that underlying
inflation, which excludes the cost of home-loan repayments, remained at
3.3 percent over 12 months in November, the highest annual rate since
September, 1993.
Clarke met Bank of England governor Eddie George on Wednesday for their
regular monthly meeting on monetary policy, but no rise in British
interest rates was announced.
Clarke ordered a quarter-point rise in the Bank's base lending rate to
6.0 percent at the end of October.
Also published on Thursday was the CBI's monthly report on
manufacturing industry, which showed weak export order books
contributing to a deterioration in the overall demand for industrial
goods. Export order books are at their lowest level since February
1994, the survey showed.
The CBI's associate director of economic analysis, Sudhir Junankar,
said the weakening in export demand was not surprising against the
backdrop of the rising value of sterling.
However, domestic demand for manufactured goods continued to hold up
and companies remained fairly confident about expanding output over the
coming months.
