Hong Kong anniversary tempered by fears over freedoms, Tung power
Hong Kong reaches the milestone of five years under Chinese rule on
Monday amid concern over a gradual erosion of freedoms and moves by its
Beijing-backed leader to strengthen his role at the helm.
Just days ahead of the anniversary celebrations, Chief Executive Tung
Chee-hwa raised eyebrows in pro-democracy camps with the biggest
government shakeup since the 1997 handover of the British colony.
Tung, a shipping tycoon who begins a second five-year term on July 1
after being returned unopposed in March, unveiled a new ministerial
system in which political appointees ousted civil service bureaucrats.
Tung and his new cabinet are to be sworn in during handover
celebrations on Monday to be attended by Chinese President Jiang Zemin.
Although described by Tung as an "accountability system," his new team
were approved by the communist authorities in Beijing and will be
accountable only to the chief executive.
Pro-democracy leaders here have voiced fears the changes will increase
the power of Tung, hand-picked by China five years ago and not very
popular in p8l territory, and allow him to surround himself with
unaccountable "yes men."
The agreement returning Hong Kong to China called for the territory to
be governed by a "one country, two systems" arrangement under which it
would retain its capitalist lifestyle and considerable autonomy for 50
years.
Commenting on recent developments, Sonny Lo, a member of the research
group Hong Kong Transitional Affairs, quipped: "It seems the aspect of
one country will dominate the`et&AMP;systems."
Joseph Cheng, a political commentator at City University, warned there
has been a gradual erosion of freedoms with Tung displaying "less
tolerance to dissent and less tolerance to criticism from the
pro-democracy camp."
"There is a danger of Tung becoming more authoritarian," he said.
Just this week, Hong Kong barred a Chinese-American rights activist,
Harry Wu, from visiting for the second time in less than three months.
No explanation for the move was forthcoming.
After Wu was denied entry in April the United States warned that Hong
Kong's future hinged on free movement and free speech.
"It is important to Hong Kong's success as an international city that
it remain open to the travelling public and the use of denials of entry
could have the affect of limiting freedom of association and
restricting the flow of ideas," said US State Department deputy
spokesman Philip Reeker.
A number of members of the Falungong spiritual movement, banned by
Beijing as an "evil cult" but legal in Hong Kong, have also been denied
entry.
The threat of declining autonomy first surfaced three years ago when
the Tung government asked Beijing to reinterpret the Basic Law, the
territory's mini-constitution, to overturn a ruling by Hong Kong's
highest court that had granted residency to any mainlander with a Hong
Kong parent.
Another move which has sparked concern is discussion within the
government about drawing up a subversion law punishing offences against
the state.
On the issue of direct elections, a statement this week by a top
Chinese leader has dampened hopes of moving towards full democracy in
2007, when the Basic Law allows for a review of the electoral system.
Hong Kong's chief executive is currently chosen by a Beijing-annointed
800-member Election Committe'(Bne-third of the seats in Hong Kong's
60-seat Legislative Council are filled through elections with the
remainder chosen by business and professional groups and the committee.
Chinese Vice Premier Qian Qichen, who is responsible for Hong Kong
affairs, said the present system was effective and "should be kept
intact."
"Hong Kong is a commercial city and one of our country's special
administrative regions," he told the local South China Morning Post.
"This determines that it cannot copy the political system of anotem as
a blatant breach of the Basic Law.
"Surely, it is up to the people of Hong Kong" to decide if they want
direct elections after 2007, Lee said.
While concerns have been raised about a potential erosion of democratic
freedoms in Hong KoHong Kong topped the list this year of the world's
freest economies compiled by the conservative US-based Cato Institute,
Canada's Fraser Institute and institutes from 54 other countries.
