Bildt ponders next step in Serb political standoff
The international community was Sunday left to ponder its next move in
its game of Balkan chess with the Bosnian Serbs, who dealt its
brainchild joint parliament for Bosnia a major body blow at the
weekend.
The stay-away Serbs claim security concerns kept them from attending
the inaugural session of the country's new joint bodies in the centre
of Sarajevo on Saturday.
The opening of the multi-ethnic House of Representatives and
three-member presidency went ahead without them, but not before they
caused western officials and the entire Bosnian political hierarchy
maximum embarrassment.
International officials, led by High Representative Carl Bildt,
Bosnia's top civilian official, took a dim view of the Serb
brinkmanship.
"They claim security reasons, but that was not the reason," said Bildt.
"They are playing games."
Top US diplomat John Kornblum was forced to backpedal: "You can be
assured that both the US, High Representative and all the other members
of the (five-nation) Contact Group will be working very hard to ensure
this is just one of those unfortunate stumbles that we have in this
process."
"That's what we've had in the past, and what I'm sure we will sometimes
bump into in the future," he added.
The international community has little left in its diplomatic armoury
now that the UN economic sanctions on Serbia and the Bosnian Serbs have
been lifted.
"There is not very much we can do. We will do the usual thing by
sending a strong diplomatic protest," said an official at Bildt's
office.
Bosnian Serb President Momcilo Krajisnik told the Serb news agency SRNA
on Sunday that the Serbs were still willing to take part in Bosnia's
new common institutions despite Saturday's boycott.
"The representatives of Republika Srpska (the Serb entity) want the
common organs to be constituted as quickly as possible," Krajisnik told
SRNA.
Krajisnik said the Serbs rejected "unfounded accusations" that the
Serbs had no interest in working with institutions common to both the
Serb entity and Moslem-Croat federation.
Krajisnik said the Serbs had "accepted the text of the solemn
declaration proposed by the office of the High Representative of the
international community, Carl Bildt."
However, a Bosnian Serb spokesman Slobodan Bijelic said Saturday that
the Serb delegation refused to consider that declaration as an oath of
office.
"We have ethical principles, we don't want to be perjurers and we
cannot swear on something that no realistic person in
Bosnia-Hercegovina can believe in anymore," Bijelic said.
Hundreds of invited guests waited while Bildt deputy Michael Steiner
held desperate talks with the Serbs to get them to attend the ceremony,
and give the proceedings some semblance of cooperation.
"It was a bad mistake to negotiate just hours before the ceremony. It
was sure they would raise their demands, they were the stars," a
Bosnian government source said of the Serbs.
Steiner had gone to the Serb stronghold Pale to negotiate with
Krajisnik and Serb deputies to the new parliament who said they were
boycotting the event because of fears for their security.
While Steiner pleaded, confusion reigned at the theatre building in
Sarajevo, where the Serb no-show looked as if it might force the
cancellation of the event. The Sarajevo philharmonic orchestra put
their instruments away, and television, left with no event to portray
to a waiting nation, cut its live broadcast.
Bildt, responsible for overseeing the civilian parts of the Dayton
peace agreement, can do nothing now but wait. "We are not going to
chase after them. The ball is in their court. We are not pushing
anything," Bildt spokesman Michael Maclay said.
But anger at the snub dominated Sarajevo's media on Sunday.
"If they are blocking the process at the very start, what will happen
when they begin to discuss the subjects to lead Bosnia from its
four-year bloodbath?" asked the Sarajevo daily Oslobodjenje.
The farcical launch was lampooned Sunday as Bosnian satirists had a
field day.
"'Waiting for the Serbs'" -- a drama directed by the international
community, the worst theatre ever on the national stage," said Bosnian
television's Senad Hadzifejzovic.
