Deng Xiaoping's Great, Brilliant Life (8)
After the victory in the War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression,
the Kuomintang, while negotiating a peace settlement with the CPC,
launched a series of local wars.
The Shanxi-Hebei-Shandong-Henan Liberated Area in the Central China
Plain, under the leadership of Liu Bocheng and Deng Xiaoping, blocked
the passage of Kuomintang troops to the North and Northeast China
Liberated areas and was a key strategic military area.
This area bore the brunt of the Kuomintang force. In September 1945,
Deng and Liu were in command at the famous Shangdang Campaign. During
the campaign all the Kuomintang troops invading the interior of the
liberated area were wiped out, and the Shanxi-Hebei-Shandong-Henan
Liberated Area was consolidated.
Later, Deng and Liu led a march eastward to intercept Kuomintang troops
heading northward along the Beiping-Hankou Railway Line, and achieved a
victory at Handan Campaign.
The two victories effectively halted Kuomintang troops' attacks on
liberated areas and greatly strengthened CPC status in negotiations in
Chongqing, playing a significant role in reaching an armistice
agreement.
In June 1946, Chiang Kai-shek launched an all-out civil war. Liu
Bocheng and Deng Xiaoping led the main force of the
Shanxi-Hebei-Shandong-Henan Field Army in mobile warfare north and
south of the Longhai (Lianyungong-Lanzhou) Railway, advancing and
retreating with big strokes and fighting continuously large-scale
battles at Longhai, Dingtao and Juye, wiping out effective strength of
Kuomintang troops in big numbers.
In May 1947, Deng served as secretary o the Central China Plains Bureau
of the CPC Central Committee. In June of that year, in accordance with
strategic arrangements made by the CPC Central Committee and Mao Zedong
on changing strategic defense to strategic attack and taking the war to
Kuomintang-ruled areas, he and Liu led the 120,000-strong main force of
the Shanxi-Hebei-Shandong-Henan Field Army in crossing the natural
barrier of the Yellow River and eliminating more than 56,000 enemy
troops in southwest Shandong Province after 28 days of continuous
fighting, thereby opening the passageway southward.
His troops later fell on the enemy suddenly, driving straight in,
fighting in front and in the rear while being pursued by tens of
thousands of enemy troops, and marching hundreds of kilometers to the
Dabie Mountains, a prelude to the strategic offensive in the Chinese
People's War of Liberation.
After entering the Dabie Mountain area, the troops of Liu and Deng
constituted a direct threat to the vast Kuomintang-ruled areas south of
the Yangtze River, forcing the Kuomintang troops to send their main
force back to assist.
