Russian FM Disavows General's Remarks on Kosovo 
Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov on Thursday disavowed a top
general's threat to pull out Russian peacekeepers from Kosovo, the
Interfax news agency reported.
"I am not sure whether this is his own view or somebody else's," Ivanov
said. "Only the president, the prime minister and the foreign minister
can make foreign policy statements," he said.
On Tuesday, Colonel General Leonid Ivashov, head of the Russian Defense
Ministry's Department for International Military Cooperation,
threatened to pull out Russian troops from Kosovo if the province's
tendency of secession from Yugoslavia becomes irreversible.
"If the tendency for Kosovo's secession from Yugoslavia becomes
irreversible and the U.N. Security Council's resolution on Kosovo is
not implemented, the Federation Council (upper house of parliament) may
raise the question of whether our contingent's further stay in the
region is expedient," Ivashov said.
He said that the U.N. resolution on Kosovo, with the exception of the
provision on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent, is not being
implemented, Interfax reported.
The provision on ensuring the security of all ethnic groups populating
Kosovo, primarily of the non-Albanian population, is not being
fulfilled at all, Ivashov said, adding that "80 percent of the Serbs
living in Kosovo have become refugees."
He said that no decision on the return of Yugoslav security forces to
Kosovo has been taken to this day.
"As a result, the borders of Kosovo remain open and Albanians who did
not live in Kosovo before, easily cross into the region. Weapons and
drugs also keep arriving into Kosovo through the open borders," he
said.
Ivanov, for his part, said the general's words should be taken with a
large pinch of salt, Interfax reported.
On the possibility of transforming the Kosovo Liberation Army into a
national guard, Ivanov said that under the appropriate U.N. Security
Council resolution, the KLA must be demilitarized and its fighters
re-integrated into civilian life.
"The formation of a paramilitary agency under any name can only make
political settlement more difficult," the minister said.
