Human Rights Group Calls For Probe Of Five Prison Deaths 
An Egyptian human rights group on Monday called on the government to
investigate the deaths of five men in a prison that has been open for
just five months.
Among the dead was a lawyer, 35-year-old Mustafa el-Iraqi, who defended
Islamic militants. His colleagues have charged that he was tortured.
The Interior Ministry, which is responsible for state security, had no
immediate comment. An official at the ministry said the staff was too
busy dealing with the attempted assassination of President Hosni
Mubarak in Ethiopia earlier in the day.
The Egyptian Organization for Human Rights said that el-Iraqi and four
others have died since the al-Wadi al-Gedid Prison was opened in the
Western Desert southwest of Cairo in February 1995.
They pointed out that el-Iraqi, who died on June 20, had been acquitted
in August 1993 of charges that he was acting against the government but
was kept in jail under a detention order issued the day after his
acquittal.
The group quoted the mother of another prisoner who died, Atia Said
Mohammed, 30, as saying his body showed signs of ``severe weight
loss.''
``The EOHR believes that the numerous cases of death in custody at
al-Wadi al-Gedid Prison, which have occurred within a very short period
of time since its opening, are a serious indication of the poor living
conditions inside the prison,'' the group said.
It added that there were reports of torture at the facility, including
``reception parties'' for new inmates in which ``detainees are forced
to remove their clothes and crawl on the floor while the guards beat
them with heavy sticks or rubber belts.''
The group estimated that as many as 2,000 prisoners have been sent to
al-Wadi al-Gedid, many transferred from the Tora Prison complex near
Cairo. Tora has been the main prison for suspected Muslim militants.
The Egyptian group said prisoners complained of an ``absence of any
medical care.'' It said inmates who complained of health problems were
sent to ``disciplinary cells'' where they were beaten.
The group also said the prison barred visits by lawyers and families
and suggested this ``may be aimed at preventing the release of any
information from the prison about the flagrant violations against
detainees and prisoners.''
It called for the prison to begin allowing visits and urged the
attorney general to set up an investigating committee to look into the
deaths.
Muslim extremists have waged a three-year campaign of violence to try
to overthrow Egypt's secular government and replace it with strict
Islamic rule.
More than 750 people have died, most of them extremists or police.
Hundreds have been arrested on suspicion of anti-government activities
or of supporting the Muslim militants. eap-mae
