Westinghouse to sell defense unit, pay down debt 
Westinghouse Electric Corp. said Friday it would sell its defense
electronics systems unit and another smaller business to raise 3.2
billion dollars and help pay for the acquisition of broadcaster CBS
Inc.
"Our plan is to quickly pay down nearly 70 percent of the CBS
acquisition debt," Westinghouse chairman and chief executive Michael
Jordan said.
"As a result, we will achieve the financial flexibility needed to
invest in and grow our broadcasting business into a broader, global
media enterprise."
Westinghouse paid 5.4 billion dollars for CBS in a deal signed August 1
and announced November 24 that the deal had been completed.
Jordan said that following the completion of these transactions, "We
expect the broadcasting business to generate about 65 percent of our
earnings, transforming the character of the company."
The asset sales are expected to be completed by mid-1996, he said.
The company said "a select group of major defense contractors" have
expressed interest in the electronic systems unit, adding that a sale
agreement is expected during the first quarter of 1996.
The company also announced it is close to an agreement to sell a
smaller business and an announcement of a sale agreement is expected
within the next two weeks.
Jordan said the electronic systems unit is "a strong business, with
tremendous technology, excellent margins, outstanding employees, and
expansive prospects."
He added that changes in the defense industry, which has consolidated
into larger, highly efficient players, "presented us with a clear
strategic choice: Take advantage of the high premiums for
defense-related assets and divest the business, or grow in scale to
retain our industry leadership position for the future.
"Given this choice and our strategic decision to drive investment and
growth in our broadcasting business, the logical decision was the sale
of our defense electronics business," he said.
The Westinghouse defense segment generates over two billion dollars due
to the production of radar systems, analysts said.
Last year the Westinghouse defense works realized sales of 2.47 billion
dollars and profits of 165 million dollars.
Westinghouse shares gained 12 cents to hit 17.62 dollars when Wall
Street opened.
