Liberian government frees group of captured rebels 
The Liberian government on Wednesday amnestied a group of 10 captured
rebel fighters and handed them over to family members at a
reconciliation ceremony in the capital Monrovia.
Information Ministry officials told journalists the 10 were from the
Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy (LURD) rebel group,
and had been captured some three weeks ago in an offensive by
government troops in the northern county of Lofa.
The spokesman of the group, Captain George Tamba, who claimed he had
formerly served in the now-defunct National Patriotic Front of Liberia
(NPFL), said seven other LURD rebels were shot dead after their
surrender to the government forces.
The NPFL was the rebel group headed by Charles Taylor before he became
the country's president in 1999.
Wednesday's ceremony, held at the Information Ministry in Monrovia, was
witnessed by officials of the International Committee of the Red Cross
and United Nations.
Handing over the rebels to their relatives, Information Minister
Reginald Goodridge warned parents to dissuade their children from
taking part in dissident activities.
"Be grateful to God that your children have been safely returned to
you. War is not good," Goodridge emphasized.
Andrew Tamba, father of 28 year-old Captain George Tamba, thanked God
for sparing his son's life.
He promised to advise all youths of the Kissi chiefdom who are resident
in Foya District on the northern borders with Guinea and Sierra Leone
not to take part in the rebel war.
The latest amnesty is among several acts of reconciliation promoted by
the Taylor government recently.
Last year Taylor granted amnesty to opposition politicians Ellen
Johnson-Sirleaf and Alhaji Kromah, among others who were accused of
being behind dissident activities in Lofa County.
The government also pardoned three members of the Krahn ethnic group
who were serving 20 years in prison following their conviction on
treason charges.
Last week, the Liberian government also pardoned Raleigh Seekie,
founding chairman of the defunct ULIMO group, which later disintegrated
into Krahn and Mandingo factions. Sekie was also charged with
supporting dissident activities.
