"Ground Zero" flag ready to fly in Olympic opening ceremony
The tattered American flag found among the rubble of the New York's World
Trade Centre will be raised during Friday's opening ceremony of the Winter
Olympics, officials said.
The frayed, ash-covered flag, which has come to symbolise the September
11 terror attacks, will be carried by an "honour guard" of firemen and
police from New York, together with American athletes, into the
Rice-Eccles Olympic stadium.
It will then be raised over the stadium during the playing of the
American national anthem, Francois Carrard, director general of the
International Olympic Committee (IOC) said.
"This will be the best way to honour and pay tribute to the victims and
heroes of September 11," he said.
The flag's role in the ceremony had threatened to escalate into an
unseemly row between the IOC and the US Olympic Committee, who had
wanted it to be carried by the American athletes during their march
around the stadium.
However, the IOC, claiming it did not want to set a precedent, vetoed
the tentative plans, prompting lengthy negotiations before an agreement
was reached late Tuesday.
Both the IOC and the Salt Lake Organizing Committee (SLOC) played down
the issue Wednesday.
"It's a misunderstanding that the IOC objected to the presence of a
very sacred flag, the Ground Zero flag," Carrard said.
"Our president agreed to the hoisting of the US Ground Zero flag as the
official US flag in the stadium."
SLOC president Mitt Romney said the arrangements recognized that
although the Games were being staged on US soil they were a global
sporting extravaganza, "not just an American event".
"The inclusion of this flag as part of the ceremony will have
particular poignancy and meaning to those of us around the world who
have been touched by the tragedy of September 11," he added.
Romney said the exact details of who would make up the honour guard
would have to be finalised with the New York Port Authority Police, who
found the flag among the debris of the twin towers.
They would also have to be consulted over how long the flag would fly
above the stadium, given its fragile state, he said.
IOC member Bob Ctvrlik, a three-time US Olympic volleyball player,
welcomed the decision saying it was the best way to give the victims
"the most respect".
"We thought it was a great idea to have it above the stadium for the
whole world to see," he said.
"We are working with an international organization so what Americans
feel is the best way to honour something might be internationally quite
different," he said. "This isn't just an American tragedy."
Romney refused to reveal any details about the ceremony or say when the
flag would be raised.
"We are not going to tell you exactly when the national anthem will be
played, even though it is definitely planned," he said. "We want to
make the show as mysterious and fun and surprising as possible."
The frayed flag with its 12 missing stars has become the symbol of the
heroic efforts of the New York firemen and police who were among the
3,000 people killed in the September 11 terror attacks.
It flew at Yankee Stadium in November during baseball's World Series in
New York and was featured on Sunday during the Super Bowl in New
Orleans.
A flag found at World Trade Center was also sent to US troops in
Afghanistan and one orbited the Earth on board the space shuttle
Endeavour.
