Report: Dahmer Killing Paid for by Drug Dealers 
A Milwaukee drugs gang paid Jeffrey Dahmer's alleged assassin more than
dlrs 100,000 to kill him, a British newspaper reported on Sunday.
The News of the World, a weekly tabloid, said that the Milwaukee-based
gang promised to pay the money to the killer's family. It did not
identify its sources, other than to say that the ``prison had been
warned something was going to happen.''
Dahmer, 34, who killed 17 young men and boys and cannibalized some of
them, was found in a pool of blood at the Columbia Correctional
Institution, where he was an inmate.
He had been assigned to clean a bathroom while on a work detail along
with another inmate, Jesse Anderson, who died Wednesday of his
injuries. Dahmer was convicted in Milwaukee in 1992.
The News of the World said Dahmer was targeted by the gang, which is
predominantly black, because most of his 17 victims were black. It
quoted the price as 70,000 pounds -- dlrs 110,000
It also said that Dahmer was rumored to be having a homosexual
relationship with another, younger black inmate.
Dahmer and Anderson were found bludgeoned to death in the area of the
prison gymnasium. They had been on a cleaning detail -- Dahmer in the
toilets and Anderson in a changing room. The News of the World report
said that three guards -- two of them armed -- were just yards (meters)
away from the killings, supervising a basketball game in the gymnasium.
Anderson, 37, was sentenced to life in prison for killing his wife,
Barbara, in 1992. He had claimed they were attacked by two black men as
they left a restaurant in a Milwaukee shopping center. She was stabbed
21 times.
Christopher Scarver, 25, who is serving a life term for murder, is the
only suspect identified so far. Scarver, who is black, is serving a
life sentence for a 1990 murder. He is not eligible for parole until
2042.
Columbia County Sheriff's Lt. Vern Gove, who is heading the
investigation into the deaths of Dahmer and Anderson, and his team took
the weekend off, but the investigation will resume Monday, said a
sheriff's department spokesman.
