FBI denies scaling back investigation into Saudi bomb blast
The FBI on Saturday denied a report that said it was scaling back FBI
teams in Saudi Arabia for lack of Saudi cooperation in the
investigation of a June bomb blast.
"Reports that the FBI is withdrawing its agents out of Saudi Arabia
because of dissatisfaction with the level of cooperation by the Saudi
government are not true," the Federal Bureau of Investigation said in a
statement.
The New York Times reported Saturday that FBI Director Louis Freeh had
become exasperated that the US agency had been cut out of the Saudi
investigation into the June 25 truck bombing that killed 19 Americans.
The daily said the lack of communication with the Saudis had compelled
him to halt the deployment of FBI replacement teams to Saudi Arabia.
The paper reported that over 70 agents were sent to the scene after the
Dhahran blast, but that number had dwindled to fewer than a dozen.
But the FBI countered that it was all part of normal procedure.
"Some FBI agents on temporary duty in Saudi Arabia working on the
bombing investigation are being continuously rotated home in the normal
course for work and personal reasons," the FBI statement said.
"Contrary to media reports ... agents remain in Saudi Arabia to
continue working with Saudi law enforcement authorities on the bombing
investigation."
The United States has not concluded who was reponsible for the truck
bombing despite a report of arrests and an Iranian connection, Defense
Secretary William Perry said Friday.
The Washington Post reported that Saudi Arabia is holding 40 suspects
in the bombing of the US military facility and that evidence points to
Iran as the possible culprit.
The suspects, all Saudi citizens secretly arrested in the past three
months, include the driver of the explosives-laden truck, sources
familiar with the Saudi probe told the daily.
"This investigation is still underway," Perry told reporters.
"We have reached no conclusions about who was responsible for this," he
added.
