`Safe Areas,' Never That, Become Even More Dangerous
``Safe area'' was never an accurate term for Sarajevo or the five other
enclaves besieged by Serbs that the United Nations promised to protect
back in May 1993.
With the Muslim-led government on the offensive, and U.N. peacekeepers
ever more on the defensive, life in the capital and the other ``safe
areas'' is even tougher and more dangerous.
The rebel Serbs responded to the June 15 government offensive to break
Sarajevo's siege by shelling the city and the other enclaves. Shells
and sniper bullets killed 144 civilians and injured 608 in Sarajevo in
June _ compared to one dead and 10 injured in January.
The survivors have to struggle to stay alive. There has been no power
or running water since May 26, when the Serbs cut both in retaliation
for NATO airstrikes on their ammunition dumps.
Sevala Hodzic, 64, and her 70-year-old husband lug 10 liters (21 pints)
of water each day up 15 stories to their apartment.
``I don't know how long we can continue like this,'' she sighed. ``This
is not life, this is hell, and one day I'll just drop dead.''
In the eastern enclaves of Srebrenica, Zepa and Gorazde, and the
northwestern area of Bihac, life is even worse.
Last weekend, Bihac reported its first victims of starvation: an
elderly man who left a note saying he was too proud to beg, and a
3-year-old who weighed 7 kilograms (15.4 pounds) at death.
Serbs on Thursday pounded Srebrenica, hitting a refugee center and a
camp for Dutch peacekeepers. Bosnian Radio reported several civilian
deaths, and the death toll was expected to rise.
For months, peacekeepers have been starved of fuel by rebel Serbs, who
dictate the flow of supplies, and have barely been able to patrol. In
Gorazde, British soldiers resorted to mules _ a sad symbol of the
entire peacekeeping mission in Bosnia.
Dispatched in the summer of 1992 to ensure aid deliveries, the 23,000
peacekeepers in Bosnia have received ever vaguer orders from world
leaders _ themselves so divided over the war that they could only agree
on alleviating the suffering instead of acting militarily to end it.
One controversial resolution came in June 1993, laying out terms for
protecting the ``safe areas'' declared a month earlier: Sarajevo, the
eastern enclaves, Bihac and the northern city of Tuzla.
The resolution empowered peacekeepers ``to deter attacks against the
safe areas,'' to occupy strategic points, to clear out troops not with
the Muslim-led government and to use force in self-defense.
U.N. Secretary General Boutros-Boutros Ghali told the Security Council
on May 30 this year that peacekeepers are thus required to react to
Serb attacks, regardless of whether the Serbs are responding to a
government offensive or not.
But that order has never been clear to peacekeepers on the ground, and
answering with force would drag contributing governments into the
direct confrontation with the Serbs _ a confrontation the West has
sought to avoid.
Nor, apparently, can U.N. commanders agree how best to protect the
``safe areas'' or help their inhabitants.
In June, the U.N. commander for Bosnia, Lt. Gen. Rupert Smith of
Britain, presented a plan to U.N. superiors in Zagreb to use force to
open aid routes into Sarajevo. It was rejected.
Yet, this week, French peacekeepers have used their biggest gun, a 120
mm mortar, against Serb guns attacking U.N. and other vehicles on the
only mountain track into Sarajevo.
And in a new tactic, some of those U.N. peacekeepers' vehicles have
taken aid to Sarajevo's needy civilians.
Rebel Serbs, who shut down the city's vital airlift with repeated
attacks on planes in April, say that contravenes the U.N. mission only
to escort aid, not transport it.
Such arguments mean little to suffering Sarajevans.
``They will kill us all,'' said Samira Kasumagic, 27, puffing a
cigarette and listening to the thud of shelling.
Her ``shelter bag'' _ which all Sarajevans keep stuffed with the most
important documents, cash and valuables _ lay beside her, ready for the
next dash to the cellar shelter.
She has not left her building for a week.
``I don't know who will survive if they continue killing us like
this,'' she said. ``But most who do probably won't care any more
because they will already be completely crazy.''
