China's No. 1 Position in Diving Hard to Shake
Ask anyone who is training in the Tsinghua University diving pool - the
venue for the 21st World University Games' diving meet - which country is
going to get the most medals, the answer is one: China.
With six reigning world champions and four World Cup titlists in the
lineup, the 13-strong Chinese team looks set to once again dominate the
pool, as it did numerous times before at World Cups and University
Games.
Heading the team are Tian Liang, Olympic and World Championships
titlist on the men's platform, and Guo Jingjing, who won double golds
in the women's springboards at the Fukuoka Swimming World Championships
last month.
Others include Hu Jia, Wang Feng, Peng Bo and Wang Kenan, all of whom
won titles in men's springboard or platform at the Fukuoka
championships. Wang Rui, who won silver in the women's 10m platform at
the last Universiade in Palma, and Cai Yuyan, silver medalist in the
same event at the World Championships in 1998, are also on the list.
The most "inexperienced" hand in the team is probably Song Dinghui, a
20-year-old who will compete in the men's 1m springboard. Even he has
won more than one gold at FINA Grand Prix and Asian Cup competitions.
Chinese team manager Zhou Jihong said China fielded a top-level team,
aiming to show its true strength at the games.
She said because of age requirements, some top divers are dropped from
the list, but the all otherwise eligible key members are included in
the team.
China's superiority is all the more obvious in the absence of strong
rivals from Russia, Australia and Canada. The names of such diving
talents as Dmitry Sautin, Yulia Pakhalina and Irina Lashko are missing
from the lists.
Many foreign coaches and judges predict China will achieve no less
feats than they did last month in Fukuoka, when it took eight gold
medals out of 10 events at the Championships.
"The Chinese team are too strong to beat," said Japanese coach Su Wei,
who is training his two men and two women divers in the Tsinghua
Natatorium. "Their divers are excellent. We have to pin our hopes on
their mistakes, if they make any," he said, half jokingly.
German judge Gerd Volker shared the same sentiments. "China are a very
good team. It's hard for our divers to defeat them," he said.
Canadian coach Gao Min said although some other countries have produced
some good divers in recent years, China on a whole are still stronger
than others. "China is No. one in the world, and nobody can threaten
its position at present," she said.
"Chinese divers are the best, whether speaking in terms of difficulty,
stability or gracefulness of their dives," said Gao, a former Chinese
diver who had dominated the springboards herself in late 1980s and
early 1990s.
Gao believes the reason lies in the difference between the training
mechanisms in China and in other countries. "With government support,
Chinese divers are trained under strict regimen and are ensured best
training facilities in the world. They can get to a very high level in
a comparatively short time. It's hard for other countries' divers to
catch up," Gao said.
Meanwhile, Chinese coaches sound cautious about the medal prospects at
the Universiade. "We can't guarantee a sweep of all golds," said Zhang
Ting, who had coached Tian Liang to Olympic victory in Sydney.
"Mexico, Japan, Cuba, they are all quite good," Zhang said. " Look at
those two girls from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. I think
they are not bad," Zhang said, pointing to two women on a platform.
"We can't underestimate our rivals. We must make sure every dive is
done correctly without big technical mistake," he said.
So far, more than 100 divers from 25 countries have registered to take
part in the 10-event diving competition, organizing officials said.
China had a successful Universiade two years ago, winning four golds
and one silver in six events. They also got both men's and women's team
titles. With the inaugural synchronized events at this year's
Universiade, China looks set to increase its haul of gold medals.
China's best showing at Universiades were in 1987, when they swept all
four golds in as many events and won both team titles. The 1m
springboard events have not yet been introduced at that time.
In 1991, China triumphed again at the Sheffield Universiade, bagging
five golds out of six events and scooping both team titles.
