West Bankers carried out Jerusalem suicide bombing: Rabin 
Palestinians from the occupied West Bank carried out the suicide
bombing of buses in Jerusalem on Monday and in Tel Aviv last month,
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Wednesday.
"The two attacks in Jerusalem and Ramat Gan (Tel Aviv) were carried out
by the inhabitants of the West Bank," Rabin told reporters after
watching army manoeuvres on the Golan Heights.
"The preparation of the bombing, the background to the operation and
the recruiting of people took place in the area."
Four bus passengers died on Monday, as well as the bomber, and six
Israelis were killed in the Tel Aviv atrocity on July 24.
Neither of the two bombers has been identified but anonymous telephone
callers to Israel state radio claimed responsibility both times in the
name of the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS.
"HAMAS works principally from the territories, even if the leadership
lives in Damascus," Rabin added.
Forensic scientists and the police have so far been unable to put names
to one male and one female among the five bodies found in the wreckage
after Monday's blast aboard a rush-hour bus in a Jewish quarter of east
Jerusalem.
"In all likelihood the male was probably the terrorist given that his
body was by far the most badly damaged," police spokeman Eric Bar Chen
told AFP.
"That's the theory we are working on now."
Police sources said the man was in his 20's and of Middle East type.
The female appeared European, aged 30-35.
Bar Chen said police were checking if the woman was a German tourist
reported missing.
Early investigations had focussed on the possibility that the woman
carried nearly six kilos (13 pounds) of explosives on to the bus.
Of 106 people who were injured, 26 remained in hospital on Wednesday. A
woman was in a very critical condition, hospital officials said.
Israel lifted at dawn Wednesday a ban on Gazan workers entering the
Jewish state, which had been imposed straight after the blast, the army
said.
But the West Bank would remain sealed off until at least dawn Thursday.
The army spokesman refused to explain the extension of the security
measure on the occupied West Bank.
But security officials told reporters they had a tip that HAMAS was
planning another suicide bombing from the West Bank.
The closure prevents more than 15,000 West Bankers with work permits
from reaching their jobs inside Israel.
Israel only lifted a 10-day closure on the Gaza Strip on Sunday.
That had been imposed after reports that HAMAS was plotting to blow up
a car in the centre of Tel Aviv. Three HAMAS suspects surrendered to
Palestinian police on Friday after a six-hour siege of their hideout in
Gaza City.
Even when the closures are lifted permanent security measures prevent
any Palestinians from entering Israel other than the 30,000-plus with
special permits.
