Oilers' Defense Gets Credit For Houston's
The Oilers should call the league office immediately and thank the
schedule-makers for sending Cincinnati to the Astrodome. If they had
played any team other than the Bengals on Sunday, they probably would
be 0-4 today.
The Oilers escaped with a 20-13 victory before 44,253 fans who spent
much of the afternoon booing an awful offense and cheering an awesome
defense. Based on Sunday's performance, if the Bengals are the worst
team in the league, the Oilers can't be too far behind.
``If we'd have lost this game, we couldn't have gone to our cars until
it was dark,'' defensive tackle Ray Childress said. ``Our performance
as a team was very embarrassing. It was sickening. Thank God, it wasn't
on local television.''
Unlike last week when the defensive backs blasted the offense,
Childress refused to single out a specific area, but it doesn't take an
aerospace scientist from Texas A&M to know he wasn't talking about
the defense.
The Oilers' defense, which hasn't surrendered a touchdown in the last
two games, limited the Bengals to 176 yards, allowed one of 13
third-down conversions, forced four turnovers and sacked quarterback
David Klingler seven times, including two each by ends Kenny Davidson
and Lamar Lathon.
Defensive coordinator Jeff Fisher's players left Klingler dazed and
confused by blitzing him from every angle. Klingler finished with
10-of-30 passing for 115 yards, and he was intercepted by Cris Dishman,
Marcus Robertson and Blaine Bishop.
The Bengals had the ball for only 21:23 compared to the Oilers' 38:37.
The defense enabled the Oilers to build a 20-3 lead going into the
fourth quarter, but rookie Corey Sawyer's 82-yard punt return for a
touchdown and a 49-yard field goal by Doug Pelfrey put the Bengals back
into the game.
``We started like the Mighty Ducks and finished like the Bad News
Bears,'' outside linebacker Micheal Barrow said. ``We barely pulled
this one out.''
Quarterback Cody Carlson returned to the lineup and played one of the
worst games of his career, completing only 12-of-34 for 211 yards.
After missing 2 1/2 games because of a shoulder separation, Carlson
struggled to find his receivers and suffered a broken nose when he was
hit at the end of a running play.
Carlson wasted an 81-yard pass to Pat Coleman on the first series. On
third down from the Cincinnati five, Carlson threw a terrible pass in
the end zone that was intercepted by safety Louis Oliver.
``It was good to get Cody back,'' said receiver Haywood Jeffires, who
had one catch for nine yards. ``He showed a lot of toughness and
leadership, but we were out of sync. It had nothing to do with the
play-calling. We just didn't seem to have any spunk. We know we can't
play like this and expect to beat other teams.''
For the second game in a row, the Oilers ran the ball more than they
threw it. They carried 42 times for 148 yards.
It was a freaky game in which the Oilers lost several players,
including running back Gary Brown (twisted ankle), who rushed for 87
yards on 19 carries before giving way to Lorenzo White, who added 42
yards on 15 carries.
Oilers special teams coach Frank Novak was called for an
unsportsmanlike conduct penalty because he collided with an official
while running down the sideline on Sawyer's punt return for a
touchdown. Rookie Mike Davis was ejected for spearing Sawyer on another
play.
``We looked like we just got together as a team recently,'' Childress
said. ``Let's face it: We beat Cincinnati. If anybody on this team
thinks what happened today is good, he should watch the replay.''
The Oilers have an extra day of work before they play at Pittsburgh on
Monday night. If the offense doesn't get its act together, the Oilers
are going to be embarrassed on national television.
If the offense and special teams had played as well as the defense, the
Oilers would have won by 30.
At one point in the second quarter, the Bengals had accumulated only 28
yards on five possessions. The Oilers had 204 yards but led only 7-0.
``I'm concerned that when we have somebody down, we don't finish
them,'' Dishman said. ``The best thing about the defense was that we
got a fantastic rush from the linemen. Klingler didn't even have time
to breathe.''
The Oilers could have run away with this one in the first half if they
had capitalized on their chances. They generated 243 yards to
Cincinnati's 63, but they traveled only 54 and one yard for their two
touchdowns.
(STORY CAN END HERE -- OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
The longest drive came on the first series when they went from their 12
to the Bengals' three, but on third down, Carlson threw the pass that
went right to Oliver.
The second series ended with Brown taking Carlson's screen pass and
picking up blocks from Coleman and tackle David Williams for a 20-yard
touchdown. Al Del Greco kicked the extra point for a 7-0 lead.
The Bengals didn't cross midfield until their sixth series, but they
still couldn't get within shouting distance of the end zone.
After the Oilers botched a 52-yard field-goal attempt when holder Rich
Camarillo couldn't handle Bruce Matthews' high snap, the defense forced
its first turnover.
Robertson intercepted Klingler and returned it 40 yards to the
Cincinnati one, and Brown scored on a one-yard run behind lead blocker
Barron Wortham, the backup middle linebacker. Del Greco made it 14-0
with 8:26 left in the half.
Dishman intercepted Klingler on the next series, but Bengals cornerback
Mike Brim did the same to Carlson. The Bengals reached the Houston 25,
but fullback Derrick Fenner was stopped for no gain by Wortham on a
fourth-and-one situation.
On the Bengals' next possession, Klingler threw a long pass to Tim
McGee, and Bishop took it away from him for an interception before the
receiver hit the ground. Bishop returned it 21 yards to the Cincinnati
49. Carlson completed three passes to reach the Bengals' 28, and Del
Greco kicked a 45-yard field goal to make it 17-0 as time expired in
the first half.
Cincinnati got a field goal from Pelfrey after end Alfred Williams
sacked Carlson from the blind side and forced a fumble at the Houston
34. The Oilers returned the favor when Lathon stripped Klingler and
Glenn Montgomery recovered at the Cincinnati 25.
The Oilers couldn't score, but Del Greco kicked a 24-yard field goal
for a 20-3 lead with 3:33 left in the third quarter.
The Bengals made it interesting early in the fourth quarter when Sawyer
fielded Camarillo's 32-yard punt and started to his right before
cutting back to his left and racing down the sideline for an easy
touchdown to make it 20-10.
On their last scoring drive, the Bengals benefited from two personal
fouls on Bishop for grabbing a facemask and Davis for spearing to reach
the 30. Davidson's sack forced them to set
``We shot ourselves in the foot a lot,'' Lathon said, ``but the good
thing is that we managed to overcome a lot of adversity to get our
first win.''
