Hijacking suspected after plane crash kills 50 in Russia
All 50 people on board a Russian charter plane were feared dead after
it crashed Tuesday in the north Caucasus after the pilot sent a signal
that it was being hijacked, Russian officials said.
The pilot had sent the coded signal moments before the plane, a
50-seater Antonov-24 charter on its way from Stavropol in southern
Russia to Trabzon in Turkey, mysteriously plummetted from the sky,
aviation officials said.
"This signal should only be launched in the event of an attack on the
crew," Yuri Korenets, director of the flight safety inspection bureau,
told AFP.
He added, however, that no "immediate conclusion was possible," since
similar distress signals had in the past been sent by mistake.
A spokesman for the ministry for emergency situations in the southern
Russian republic of Karachai-Cherkessia, where the plane came down,
said witnesses reported hearing a blast at the time of the accident.
Interfax news agency quoted local officials as saying that the plane
may have exploded in mid-air.
A ministry official told AFP by telephone from Cherkessk (eds. correct)
that the mid-air blast theory appeared to be borne out by the wreckage
-- scattered over a three-kilometre (two-mile) radius -- and the
condition of the victims' remains.
Rescue workers, who ministry officials said had reached the crash site
within 40 minutes of the crash, had recovered 36 bodies by
late-afternoon. Officials said there were expected to be no survivors.
Korenets said the signal was tracked for five or six seconds by the
control tower in Stavropol before the plane disappeared from radar
screens at 9:30 a.m, 36 minutes into its flight from Stavropol to the
Turkish Black Sea port of Trabzon.
It was flying at 6,000 metres (20,000 feet) when it disappeared.
But the age of the aircraft and Russia's recent appalling aviation
safety record have raised questions about the plane's air-worthiness.
The Antonov-24 is a twin-engined 50-seater propeller plane, production
of which ceased in 1978.
But Koronets ruled out the aircraft's age as a reason for the crash,
insisting that it answered to "all the norms of airworthiness."
Sources cited by the Interfax news agency said rescuers had recovered
one of the plane's black boxes, or flight data recorder, but Korenets
could not confirm that information.
The plane, which belonged to a company based in Stavropol, went down
near the town of Cherkessk about 90 kilometers (55 miles) south of
Stavropol, a ministry spokesman said.
The plane was carrying 41 passengers, an eight-member crew and one
director from the company itself, the airline which owned the plane
said.
The emergency situations ministry had said earlier that there were 48
people on board the doomed plane, and later put the number at 46.
Neither the ministry nor the airline company specified the nationality
of the victims.
A special team from Russia's state civil aviation committeee was due to
leave Moscow for Cherkessk Tuesday to take part in the investigation, a
spokesman for the committee told Interfax.
It was the first major air crash this year in Russia, where air
disasters have become common in recent years due to poor maintenance
and equipment in an industry which found itself suddenly starved of
cash after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
In 1996, 14 civilian plane crashes were reported across the country
with a total of 219 victims, the civil aviation committee spokesman
said.
Moscow's civil aviation committee blamed the increase in crashes on the
growth of charter companies.
Cheap charter flights are popular with Russians travelling abroad to
buy consumer goods for resale in Russia. Turkey is one of the top
charter destinations for such "shop tours," normally costing a
knock-down 200 dollars, hotel and transport included.
