U.S.-Japanese Dispute Fades at Summit
The agreement Wednesday between Japan and the United States to resume
auto talks reduces the threat the bitter trade dispute will overshadow
this week's summit of the seven wealthiest democracies.
Instead, U.S. officials will press for consideration of an
international bankruptcy plan to deal quickly and effectively with any
future Mexican-style currency crisis. Germany opposes the bankruptcy
plan, saying it would encourage countries to pursue risky fiscal
policies.
The three days of economic talks among the leaders of the Group of
Seven _ the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and
Canada _ start Thursday.
Russian President Boris Yeltsin is to join them Friday night to discuss
political issues, including fighting in Bosnia and Chechnya.
France's defiant decision Tuesday to resume nuclear testing could
figure prominently in the political talks.
France's G-7 partners protested, but politicians and commentators said
there was no doubt French President Jacques Chirac deliberately timed
the announcement as a show of independence and fortitude on the eve of
the summit.
Canadian Foreign Minister Andre Ouellet said the danger of the French
decision was that other nuclear powers might be tempted to follow suit.
Security was tight in the Atlantic seaport of Halifax as the first
leaders, Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien and Japanese Prime
Minister Tomiichi Murayama, arrived in driving rain to red-carpet
welcomes and salutes from scarlet-coated Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
Earlier Wednesday, the United States and Japan announced they had
agreed to resume auto talks June 23-24 in Geneva _ only six days before
dlrs 5.9 billion in punitive U.S. sanctions are to take effect against
13 models of luxury Japanese cars.
Murayama and President Clinton were expected to touch on trade in a
one-on-one meeting in Halifax, but officials said no trade breakthrough
was expected.
The dispute _ over American demands that Japan lower trade barriers on
autos and auto parts as a way of shrinking the dlrs 66 billion U.S.
trade deficit with Japan _ was never on the formal summit agenda. But
it had been expected to arise in bilateral meetings.
The United States was keen to keep the trade fight from interfering
with action on other issues, including its push for an international
bankruptcy plan.
The bankruptcy initiative grew out of the collapse of the Mexican peso,
when the American administration had to overcome strong objections from
Congress and its allies to put together a dlrs 50 billion rescue
package.
In a related proposal, the United States has won backing for a series
of measures that would strengthen the surveillance powers of the
International Monetary Fund to allow the agency to sound an alert when
countries pursue risky strategies.
The summit leaders are also expected to endorse a plan to double a dlrs
28 billion IMF fund to provide ready resources for a future crisis.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin acknowledged there was
less-than-unanimous agreement on the bankruptcy rules. The idea, which
is being supported most vigorously by the United States and Canada, was
left out of a draft economic communique leaked last week.
Chretien said in a speech before flying to Halifax on Wednesday that no
country is immune from ``the shocks that can be transmitted around the
globe in an instant'' following a currency crisis.
``Mexico is a case in point,'' he told a conference on international
affairs in Montreal. ``The sudden flight of billions of dollars in
capital turned what might have been a short-term liquidity problems
into what has been called the first real crisis of the new era.
``And the repercussions _ the so-called tequila effect _ were felt in
markets around the globe,'' he said.
Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman Terusuke Terada said Japan favors a
system to raise cash in a hurry for a rescue fund.
``We are particularly interested in seeing some realistic measures are
taken to prevent Mexican-type crises. If something happens, we would
like to see the IMF playing an early role. There should be, for
instance, an early warning system.''
