Los Angeles Kings Big Winner In NHL Draft 
The Los Angeles Kings were a big winner as the NHL held its first draft
drawing Sunday to determine the order of picks in next month's entry
draft in Edmonton.
As the result of a complicated weighted lottery, the Kings will move to
third position from the seventh slot behind the Ottawa Senators and the
New York Islanders.
The Senators will pick first on the basis of finishing with the fewest
number of points during the 1994-95 season (23).
``We are pleased to have the first pick,'' said Ottawa general Randy
Sexton.
The 10 non-playoff teams that participated in the draft drawing were,
in inverse order of regular-season points: Ottawa, New York Islanders,
Anaheim, Tampa Bay, Edmonton, Winnipeg, Los Angeles, Montreal, Boston
(from Hartford) and Florida.
Under the new system, only the five teams with the fewest points had
the chance to select first overall and no team could move up more than
four spots in the draft order.
``It wasn't really suspenseful,'' said Sexton of the procedure. ``We
had a list of the random numbers and everybody tried to pretend that
they really didn't care, but as the numbers started to pop up,
everybody started to try and figure out which number fell in their
realm.''
The NHL went to a draft lottery after former Ottawa owner Bruce
Firestone hinted that the Senators purposely lost the last game of the
1992-93 season to guarantee they would pick first overall in the '93
draft.
The NHL investigated and found no basis for the comments, but changed
the draft procedure to prevent such an action.
``Commissioner (Gary) Bettman thought it was an important step to take
to preserve the integrity of the game and we are certainly supportive
of that,'' said Sexton.
Sexton wouldn't drop any hint about who Ottawa will take with the
coveted top pick.
``We have not had our final draft meetings yet,'' he said.
The order of selection, in the first round only, of the 1995 draft on
July 8:
Ottawa, New York Islanders, Los Angeles, Anaheim, Tampa Bay, Edmonton,
Winnipeg, Montreal, Boston (from Hartford), Florida, Dallas, San Jose,
Hartford (from the New York Rangers), Vancouver, Toronto, Buffalo,
Washington, New Jersey, Chicago, Calgary, Boston, Philadelphia,
Washington (from St. Louis), Pittsburgh, Quebec, Detroit.
