Hunger crisis casts large shadow over Zimbabwean elections
One year ago, Mrs. Ndlovu's fields were ripe with melons, pumpkins and
corn. More importantly, she was able to get mealie meal -- finely
ground corn used to make sadza, which has an almost sacred place in the
Zimbabwean diet.
This year, her fields in southern Zimbabwe are scorched by drought.
Economic mismanagement and the collapse of commercial farming have left
the store shelves empty.
So Ndlovu, who was unwilling to give her first name, has had to seek
help from the World Food Program (WFP), the UN agency that has mounted
a massive relief operation to feed more than half a million people
facing starvation in a country that was once a regional breadbasket.
The hunger crisis has become one of the main issues in t the bush to
survive.
To feed her children, Ndlovu said she makes a drink from the sap of
amarula trees, picks mopane worms and beans for protein, and sometimes
finds some wild fruit that she dries and serves with water. She has
four chickens, but no other livestock.
While the drought in southern Zimbabwe is the most immediate cause of
Ndlovu's problems, the government's mismanagement of the economy and
its controversial land reforms have made the food shortage a national
problem, even in cities.
National grain reserves are empty. The harvest in April is expected to
fall at least 600,000 tonnes short of the nation's needs.
Commercial farms, owned mainly by white Zimbabweans, have fallen idle
since the government targetted most of that land for resettlement by
blacks.
Militant backers of President Robert Mugabe forcibly occupied many of
the white-owned farms two years ago, effectively blocking white farmers
from plowing their fields.
Despite warnings of a hunger crisis as early as one year ago,
Zimbabwe's government spent months adamantly denying the food shortage.
When the government finally swallowed its pride and asked for
international help, the WFP responded with an appeal for 60 million
dollars to feed more than 558,000 people -- a huge number in a nation
that normally feeds itself and exports its surplus grain around the
region.
Zimbabwe has not needed international food aid for its own people since
1992, when a massive droughporters, has slowed the food relief.
Aid agencies managed to hand out one-month rations of mealie meal in
only two districts before deciding to suspend their distributions for
two weeks over security concerns.
Even the few distributions that did take place had to be scheduled
around political rallies.
While rural Zimbabweans are faced with the most minimal options for
food, city dwellers are also suffering from the mealie meal shortage.
Few people can afford other grains. Rice, for example, costs more than
10 times as much as mealie meal.
WFP dieticians estimate that on average, Zimbabweans get 60 percent of
their energy requirements from sadza, the thick porridge made from
mealie meal.
Without mealie meal, and no other starch to replace it, a person's body
will start to feed on itself, and malnutrition sets in.
The hunger problem is compounded by the high incidence of HIV, which
infects at least one in four adult Zimbabweans, according to the United
Nations. Poor nutrition leaves people with HIV more susceptible to the
disease and to other infections.
In his rallies, Mugabe has tried to assure voters that the government
is working to bring in more food, even though mealie meal has been in
short supply for more than two months.
Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai has used the food crisis to
criticize the government, but seems to be counting on international aid
and a restoration of at least some commercial farming, if he wins, to
end the nation's hunger.
Whether scared by the political violence or just hungry, few recipients
of the food aid said the election's outcome would change their lives.
"Whoever wins, it will be the same," Sihleli Sibanda said while waiting
in the shade with his donkey for his ration.
