A flotilla of dugout canoes will deliver the Queen's Baton, the symbol
of the Games, to Victoria harbour, and native drawings will embellish
the medals.
"Everything we're doing has just ballooned recently, response is
wonderful and this thing is getting huge, said Sabba Sall,
communications coordinator of the native participation committee of the
Games.
At the Lau WelNew Cultural Village, aboriginal peoples from throughout
the Commonwealth will showcase their own art, music, and food.
But at least one headache was resolved last week when striking city
workers agreed to submit their dispute to binding arbitration and go
back to work.
City officials and organisers had started to worry that more than 3,300
competitors from 67 countries arriving for the Games would be greeted
by weeks' worth of uncollected garbage.
On Friday, that fear was laid to rest when union chief Colin Graham
said: "We have visitors coming. Our house is a little bit messy. We
have to tidy it up."
As well as the competitors, officials and 2,500 journalists, an
additional 70,000 visitors are expected for the Games.
Tourism is already the chief industry in the picturesque city, where an
atmosphere of 19th century England pervades.
So far ticket sales to actual sports events have been slow, but
organisers say they have covered their costs.
Lorne Whyte, chief executive of Victoria's tourist board, said the
Games were expected to produce nearly 50 million Canadian dollars (36
million US) in increased tourism revenues this year.
The worldwide television audience could reach 300 million, and in
Canada itself television coverage has received a boost from the major
league baseball strike.
The lack of baseball games means Canadian TV will air six extra hours
of Games action.
In competition, Australia is widely expected to head the charge for
gold, led by a powerful swimming squad. Canada is hoping the home
advantage will boost their tally.
South Africa returns to the Commonwealth fold after an absence of 36
years. They last competed in the 1958 Games in Wales.
Hong Kong will be bidding farewell to the Games. The British colony
reverts to China after 1997.
