Arsenal, Leeds United Beat Spainish Rivals in Euro Cup 
Arsenal and Leeds United beat Spanish rivals Valencia and Deportiva La
Coruna respectively in the UEFA Champions League quarterfinals first
leg matches on Wednesday.
Two goals in two minutes by Thierry Henry and Ray Parlour gained
Arsenal a 2-1 win after last season's runner up, Valencia, had gone
ahead at Highbury.
Roberto Ayala gave Valencia the lead with a goal four minutes before
the interval before strikes by Henry and Parlour in the 58th and 60th
minutes turned the game Arsenal's way. Arsene Wenger 's team now goes
to Spain in two weeks time with a slim lead while the Spanish team has
the satisfaction of an away goal.
Dennis Bergkamp, who rarely plays in Arsenal's games abroad because of
his fear of flying, missed the game because of an Achilles tendon
injury but the Gunners otherwise had a full strength lineup with
Nigerian striker Kwankwo Kanu and Thierry Henry in attack.
French midfielder Patrick Vieira should have put the Gunners ahead in
the 15th minute when, from barely two meters out, he headed against the
crossbar from a left wing corner. A follow up shot from countryman
Henry was blocked by a defender and Valencia survived.
The Spaniards went close when Ayala headed wide from Gaizka Mendieta's
right wing corner and, when Argentina forward Kily Gonzalez broke down
the left, his deflected cross beat Seaman but Juan Sanchez could only
fire into the side of the net at the far post.
Valencia goalkeeper Santiago Canizares saved an Henry free kick at the
foot of the post but Arsenal's veteran England goalkeeper David Seaman
kept out efforts from Mendieta and John Carew.
Seaman made another block from Carew in the 36th minute with the
striker's follow up shot hitting the post before he was beaten four
minutes before half time.
Kily Gonzalez floated a pass out to Mendieta on the right and his cross
caused chaos in the Arsenal defense. The ball came clear to Ayala who
fired past Seaman from close range.
Goalscorer Ayala was unlucky when he appeared to get a yellow card
which would rule him out of the second leg in Valencia when the foul on
Kanu was clearly by Jocelyn Angloma.
Arsenal turned the game around with two goals in two minutes.
The equalizer came when Kanu failed to control Sylvain Wiltord' s left
wing free kick but the ball rolled to Robert Pires. His deft backheel
beat the offside trap and Henry was well placed to fire past Canizares.
Two minutes later Parlour won the ball in midfield and ran forward
barely a few yards before launching a 30-meter drive that flew past
Canizares into the roof of the net.
Leeds United staked their claim to a place in the Champions League
semifinals with a 3-0 victory over Deportivo Coruna.
Ian Harte drilled a free-kick past Francisco Molina in the 26th minute
for a stunning opening goal in the quarter-final first leg tie at
Elland Road.
Leeds dominated the first half and picked up where they left off in the
second with Alan Smith's close range header from Harte' s cross
powering past Molina in the 51st minute.
Rio Ferdinand gave Leeds a first leg lead they would expect to defend
comfortably in Spain in a fortnight's time with a 66th minute header
after Molina was caught in no-man's land at a corner.
