U.S. House Approves Foreign Aid Bill, Ending Democratic Stall
The House approved a dlrs 12 billion bill sharply reducing foreign aid
Tuesday, ending Democratic efforts to protest strong Republican control
over the bill and the Congress.
The bill, which goes to the Senate, would cut current aid by 11 percent
and is 20 percent below President Clinton's request. Aid to Israel and
Egypt, which receive more than 40 percent of all aid under the bill,
remains intact, making cuts to other countries and programs even
deeper.
The House voted 333-89 to approve the appropriations bill covering
foreign operations and export financing. Passage followed nearly 30
hours of sometimes bitter debate that included an all-night session
last month.
In the end, 133 Democrats joined 199 Republicans in voting for the
bill.
The legislation also includes a prohibition of funds for groups that
support abortions even where they are legal, raising concerns among
family planning organizations that it would end U.S. support for their
efforts.
Other provisions would reduce aid to Turkey as punishment for alleged
human rights abuses and restrict aid to Haiti if it does not hold
U.S.-approved elections.
On the final day of debate, the House quickly approved an amendment
that would withhold any lifting of the embargo against Serbia and
Montenegro until excessive Serbian control over the province of Kosova
is ended.
An amendment to prohibit aid to Ethiopia until progress is made on
human rights, also passed by voice votes.
Rep. Eliot L. Engel, a New York Democrat, said more pressure on Serbia
was needed to prevent Serbia from dominating Kosova.
Ironically, the Republican manager of the bill, Rep. Sonny Callahan,
opposed the bill on Serbia on the grounds that it would hinder the
Clinton administration in the conduct of its foreign policy _ a
complaint Clinton has made about other Republican congressional action
on foreign affairs.
Callahan, saying he and 90 percent of House members don't even know
where Kosova is, criticized members who travel to a country and then
adopt it as a cause.
``We have 435 little undersecretaries of state traveling all over the
world,'' he said. Callahan said he, in fact, did not know where Kosova
is except that it is part of former Yugoslavia.
Callahan said he had received a call from the State Department opposing
the amendment on Serbia because it would interfere with the conduct of
U.S. foreign policy in the Yugoslav conflict.
The House also considered an amendment to restrict aid to Kenya, but
after several members praised human rights progress in Kenya and raised
objections to the provision, it was withdrawn.
The only new provision in the bill is a $484 million fund it creates
for child survival programs around the world _ a Republican plan made
in response to Democratic criticism that children would suffer from the
aid cuts, particularly in Africa.
Earlier Tuesday, the House approved most-favored-nation trading status
for Cambodia and Bulgaria.
Rep. Philip M. Crane, head of the House Ways and Means Committee
subcommittee on trade, praised both Cambodia and Bulgaria as newly
democratic nations moving towards market economies.
Before giving more than the required two-thirds approval of
most-favored-nation trading status for the two former communist
nations, the House lapsed into lengthy roll-call votes demanded by
Democrats objecting to Republican control over the foreign aid debate.
Democrats resumed tactics that led to an all-night session on the
Foreign Operations bill prior to last week's Independence Day recess.
But the Republican majority prevailed, and debate on remaining
amendments concluded under new rules that limited the time for
consideration.
