Tourists Bypassing Florida: Fear Of Violent Crime 
The sun was shining this summer on tourism growth in the South --
except for continuing clouds over Florida.
Although the figures are preliminary, as autumn begins, Florida is the
only Southern state reporting declines in tourism from a year ago.
Other states appear to be building on last year's growth, when domestic
travelers spent almost $74 billion in the region.
Contending with widely reported crimes against tourists and increasing
competition from other destinations, Florida saw tourist visits fall in
the first five months this year. But in June, the last month for which
figures are complete, the state counted 3.4 million tourists, a slight
increase from a year ago.
``We hope the storm clouds are starting to clear,'' said state Commerce
Secretary Charles Dusseau.
Still, current estimates are that approximately 40 million tourists
will visit Florida in 1994, down from 41 million last year.
The dip is blamed both on the 1993 slayings in Florida of German and
British tourists and on competition from ``sun'' destinations in Mexico
and the Caribbean.
Florida also is feeling heat from new or expanded entertainment
complexes, such as country music facilities in Branson, Mo., Myrtle
Beach, S.C., and Tennessee; casinos in Mississippi and Louisiana; and
the new ``family-oriented'' resorts in Las Vegas.
Florida tourist officials point out, however, that the state has
experienced declines in the past, only to rebound quickly.
In Alabama, tourism director Wayne Greenhaw estimates the number of
tourists through August was about 10 percent greater than in 1993.
``The hotel lodging tax was up $1.5 million from a year ago,'' he said.
Greenhaw said he doesn't think that recent racial difficulties in
Wedowee, including the arson of the town's high school, will have a
major negative impact on Alabama's tourism.
``But it's unfortunate and we have received some critical calls about
it,'' he said.
In South Carolina, tourism director Marion Edmonds said this summer
should set record figures for tourist spending on the state's coast.
``We don't have all the numbers yet, but business has been real
positive,'' he said.
In 1993, an estimated 10.5 million people visited the 60 miles of
beaches along the Grand Strand coastline. Many tourists also are
attending the theaters, from a circus show to country music, that have
opened in Myrtle Beach.
A possible problem for South Carolina's tourism is a threatened boycott
by civil rights groups to protest the Confederate battle flag being
flown over the state Capitol. The state Supreme Court is scheduled to
decide in November if it's legal to fly the flag at the Capitol.
What's making tourists flock to the Mississippi beaches is not sun or
surf or entertainment -- but gambling.
Since late 1992, more than 30 casinos have opened along Mississippi's
Gulf Coast or the Mississippi River -- and in 1993 the casinos reported
gross revenues of $790 million, with state and local tax revenues
amounting to $85 million.
This year, the growth is rapidly accelerating. At the end of August,
the casinos had reported gross revenues of $972 million and tax
revenues of $110 million.
``The casinos have brought millions of tourists to Mississippi,'' said
George Smith, tourism director.
Louisiana also has moved into gambling but so far on a much smaller
scale than Mississippi because of legal and political fights.
There are currently eight riverboat casinos in Louisiana, and there are
controversial plans to build the world's largest land casino in
downtown New Orleans.
Elsewhere in the South:
Georgia: ``We were having a great year until the flood in July
(Tropical Storm Alberto),'' said state tourism director Hannah Ledford.
``It looks like we will have pretty weather for the fall and, if it
continues, we will have a good year.'' Along the state's Golden Isles
beaches, tourist numbers for the summer rose about 10 percent,
according to Doug Traub, marketing director for Jekyll Island.
North Carolina: Dick Trammell, director of the state's tourism
division, said the summer ``was one of the best ever.'' More than 1.7
million visitors stopped at the state's welcome centers in June and
July.
Tennessee: Amusement revenues -- mainly at Orpyland and Dollywood --
have risen more than 20 percent for the first half of 1994, according
to Susan Fulton, tourism commissioner. ``The hotel and motel folks say
their revenues are up 13 percent or so,'' she said.
(Gene Tharpe writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.) .
