New Zealand rise from the ashes 
New Zealand shook off the humiliation of their recent South African
tour which went up in smoke to humilitate the West Indies here on
Monday.
Wicketkeeper Adam Parore scored an unbeaten maiden Test century and
fast bowler Danny Morrison took four for 33, including the wicket of
the world's best batsman, Brian Lara, for two.
The West Indies finished the day on 102 for five, needing another 42
runs to avoid the follow-on after New Zealand had declared at 341 for
eight.
However, with two days lost to rain the match is unlikely to produce a
result although new coach John Reid was optimistic.
"We talked in the dressing room quite openly before we went out to bowl
today that only one team could win the Test match and that was us -- so
we may as well give it 100 percent," said Reid who replaced Geoff
Howarth in the furore over the cannabis-smoking in South Africa.
"If we can bowl them out for 140 or less they're going to have to bat
again -- we could win this Test match," he added.
Dion Nash, batsman Stephen Fleming and allrounder Matthew Hart, who
were suspended for the one-day internationals for smoking cannabis, all
played today.
Lara was at the crease for only 18 minutes when Morrison got his slower
ball to duck back into the lefthander and the world record Test scorer
got an inside edge on to his leg stump.
"It was good to get that little fella," Morrison said.
"It's nice to outfox a lefthander like that. You bounce them, then you
come wide and go across them and then bowl that slow pie thing which
hugs back into his off stump."
Morrison was also rapt to have outsmarted two of the West Indies better
batsmen -- Williams and Jimmy Adams -- with his bouncer.
"They're impulsive and they're bought up on a diet of quick bowling in
the Caribbean so they do play that shot a lot and they back themselves
to score from it.
Parore had to overcome a fear of the West Indies pace attack which had
ruined his one-day series.
"Coming out of the one-day series I was a little bit bewildered about
how I was going to score a run against these guys," he said. "I was
somewhat intimidated by them as well."
He spent most of his five-hour stay at the crease avoiding short
pitched deliveries -- which as a wicketkeeper, who has to look after
his hands, he felt very vulnerable to.
"The bounce that Walsh and Ambrose get is really difficult to deal
with," he explained.
"If you stand up and play you'll just get bashed around the hands and
arms from the sheer number of short balls you get."
Parore was well supported by Hart who hit his highest Test score of 45
as the pair put on 118 for the seventh wicket.
