Liberian warlord says no elections before disarmament 
A warlord and member of Liberia's interim council of state, Alhaji
Kromah, Thursday rejected the idea of holding elections before
disarmament as suggested by co-council member Charles Taylor.
In a radio broadcast, Kromah said "If we really want early elections
because we want peace, we must also be ready to disarm, refrain from
forming and nurturing more warring factions."
"Anyone showing enthusiasm for elections can not be committed to peace
except there is equal enthusiasm for disarmament," said Kromah who
heads the Mandingo wing of the United Liberation Movement (ULIMO).
He said although 100 percent disarmament may not be achieved "even if
we had all the time, ULIMO would only accept elections that are held in
reasonably safe environment where people have freedom of choice and
movement."
Kromah said elections should symbolize peace, real peace, and not just
a way out of frustration or opportunity to cover up arms."
He said a six-count position statement of ULIMO on the current peace
process would be presented to the forthcoming summit of the Economic
Community of West African States, ECOWAS, slated to take place in the
Nigerian federal capital Abuja.
Kromah said the position calls for elections to be held within six to
nine months, the banning of any warring faction members or organizers
of armed groups from running or holding public office in the next
elected government if they fail to disarm before elections.
He said ULIMO also wants the deployment of African peacekeeping force,
ECOMOG, to continue in preparation for disarmament, and the reduction
of assembly sites for combatants to accommodate the inadequate size of
ECOMOG forces.
Kromah urged the international community to fully support the Ad-Hoc
elections commission to begin concrete work and finance programs for
former combatants to restore their lives and integrate into civil
society.
Taylor last Tuesday told a conference of traditional chiefs he would
like to see early elections take place "without total disarmament." He
described as "unfair" demands by the international community and most
Liberians for total and complete disarmament and demoblization of some
60,000 combatants before presidential and general elections Liberia.
Liberia's warring factions agreed in a peace deal they signed last
August to disarm their fighters before general and presidential
elections that were scheduled to take place next month are held.
Taylor's National Patriotic Front of Liberia ignited the civil war on
December 24, 1989 with a raid that ousted then president Samuel Doe.
Doe was tortured to death by NPFL dissidents nine months later in
Monrovia.
