Kabila sets up state within a state in eastern Zaire
Perched atop the hills overlooking Lake Kivu in eastern Zaire, this
small town has become the "capital" of the mini-state set up by Tutsi
rebels vying to overthrow the government in Kinshasa.
Throughout the day the "people's radio" broadcasts a long series of
communiques calling on public servants to return to work and on local
residents to rejoin their homes as "there is nothing to fear."
The so-called "president" of this state within a state is
Laurent-Desire Kabila, who grabbed world headlines last month when his
troops launched a rebellion against the central government sparking a
massive exodus of mainly Hutu Rwandan refugees.
Kabila's well-organized troops managed to eject from Goma, the capital
of north Kivu province, and from Bukavu, government troops as well as
Rwandan Hutu militias or former members of the Rwandan Armed Forces
(RAF) who had fled to Zaire following the 1994 inter-ethnic genocide of
more than half a million people in neighboring Rwanda. Most of those
killed were Tutsis or moderate Hutus.
Although the rebels, most of them Zairean Tutsis known as
Banyamulengue, failed in their bid to overthrow the government, they
succeeded in consolidating their hold on the eastern part of the
country, where they have set up an autonomous administrative network
aimed at reassuring the population.
Local radio continuously broadcasts the decisions taken by "president"
Kabila, including the appointment of a new governor for south Kivu
province, a new mayor and various other civil servants who are shown on
television being sworn in to their new post.
Kabila himself has set up his headquarters in the residence of the
former governor appointed by Kinshasa and daily meets with his new
appointees and local residents to try and restart the economy of this
agriculturally rich region and convince locals that he is their
protector.
Most residents appear satisfied, at least for now, with their new ruler
and cite improved security and a gradual return to law and order as
their reasons.
"Before, we were shaken down by Zairean soldiers at every roadblock,
houses were looted but now all that is over, the president has
imprisoned the thieves," said one Lebanese merchant.
An Indian storeowner said he had received assurances that he would be
granted a pass so that his trucks could travel freely all the way to
Goma.
As for Kabila, he bursts out laughing when asked whether his aim is to
set up an autonomous state in the Kivu region as was the case in 1960
in Shaba province.
"I am not from Kivu," he says, seated in one the former governor's
gilded couches and wearing a grey safari jacket and sandals. On his
head is a cap bearing the name of the Spanish resort town of Marbella.
"The next step for me is Kinshasa," he adds.
