New expulsions leave Cambodian democracy in death throes
A Cambodian party's expulsion of four of its members of parliament and
two high-ranking bureaucrats was described by political analysts Sunday
as a new sign that the country's democracy is dying.
Saturday's purge in the Buddhist Liberal Democratic Party (BLDP)
included a party founder, a vice-chairman of parliament and the
influential chairman of the assembly's Commission on Human Rights.
A request for their dismissal from parliament will be presented soon,
according to BLDP president Ieng Mouly. All are expected to be
unseated.
"The liberal, pluralistic democracy that the Cambodian constitution
requires is being lost as we speak," a parliamentary advisor told AFP,
noting the expulsions came hours after visiting US Secretary of State
Warren Christopher had praised Cambodia's progress in that area.
"The National Assembly is now a 100-percent rubber-stamp parliament,"
he said.
Though the BLDP is small and the two main parties in the three-party
coalition government control all but 11 seats in the 120-member
national assembly, it has been a haven for protectors of human rights.
Many fear, that role is about to end.
"No MP can now not follow their party line and all the party lines are
converging, so for intents and purposes, there is only one party," said
one longtime political observer.
But Ieng Mouly, also the Minister of Information, called the expulsions
a purely internal matter and said gloomy assessments of Cambodian
democracy were not appropriate.
"There is no problem for loyal opposition as long as MPs are
responsible about it," he said Sunday. "The BLDP will contine to be a
strong opponent in the assembly of what is wrong."
He added that the BLDP would soon propose legislation to prohibit the
expulsion from parliament of MPs who lose membership in their party, a
contentious issue since June when former finance minister Sam Rainsy
was ousted from parliament after being dismissed from the royalist
FUNCINPEC party.
Legal authority for such expulsions is unclear, but for the moment, Sam
Rainsy's case provides a dangerous precedent, according to the United
Nations Special Representative for Human Rights in Cambodia, Michael
Kirby.
It "is contrary to international principles and probably contrary to
Cambodian law" and "is a worrying development for the future of
democracy in Cambodia," Kirby said Saturday on his arrival in the
country.
BLDP founder Son Sann, the octogenarian "national face" of the party;
his son, vice president of the national assembly, Son Soubert; chairman
of the national assembly human rights commission, Kem Sokha; another MP
and two other members were all expelled from the party.
Those six led by Son Sann had been engaged in a power struggle with a
faction loyal to Ieng Mouly who took control of the BLDP in early July
at a party congress which the six boycotted.
Son Sann, who is out of the country, has said the congress was
"illegal" and has called for a new one to be held on October 1.
