Israeli generals demand more time to hurt Hezbollah 
Israeli generals are pressing Prime Minister Shimon Peres to resist
international pressure for an immediate ceasefire in Lebanon, saying
they want time to inflict more damage on Hezbollah, officials said
Wednesday.
General Giora Inbar, in charge of coordinating actions between the
Israeli army and its proxy militia in the so-called "security zone" in
south Lebanon, went public with the hardliners' concerns late Tuesday
by warning that the army "will not permit" Peres to call an immediate
halt to the operation.
Speaking on the sixth day of Israel's intense air-and-artillery
campaign against suspected bases in southern Lebanon from which
Hezbollah launches attacks on northern Israel, Inbar said: "The goals
of the operation are progressing step-by-step according to plan and the
mandate given by the political level."
"We will not permit a situation in which Peres holds us back when we
haven't finished the job," he told reporters.
Army chief of staff General Amnon Shahak quickly moved to counter
Inbar's outburst, which he called "stupid an unnecessary."
But officials said Inbar's concerns that not enough damage has been
inflicted yet on Hezbollah were shared by many in the army and also by
some of Peres' top ministers.
Inbar himself reacted to Shahak's reprimand with an only partial
apology, saying he regretted "the way in which my remarks were handled
by the media."
The split in government came in response to a US ceasefire proposal
presented Tuesday to Israel, Lebanon and Syria.
The proposal, reported by Israeli state television, would involve
Syrian guarantees that Hezbollah would not fire rockets into northern
Israel or use civilian bases to launch attacks on Israeli troops in the
south Lebanon buffer zone.
Peres dispatched his minister for the peace process, Yossi Beilin, to
Washington Wednesday for further talks on the proposals, worked out by
the United States in conjunction with Israel.
Peres' office said Beilin would be in Washington until Friday.
Foreign Minister Herve de Charette of France, which has been the most
outspoken critic of Israel's operation among western governments, was
returning to Israel from Lebanon Wednesday to press ceasefire efforts.
He was due to meet around midday with Foreign Minister Ehud Barak in
Tel Aviv, but had no scheduled meeting with Peres.
De Charette met Peres on Monday and Tuesday morning then flew to
Damascus for talks with Syrian President Hafez al-Assad. He met with
Lebanese leaders in Beirut Tuesday night.
