China Condemns "Taiwan U.N. Representation" Proposal (1) 
China today strongly condemns Nicaragua and a few other countries for
putting forward once again the so-called "representation" of Taiwan in
the United Nations, saying the act has seriously violated its
sovereignty, brazenly interfered in its internal affairs and deeply
hurt the feelings of its people.
On July 18, Nicaragua and a few other countries wrote to U.N.
Secretary-General, demanding that Taiwan's "representation" in U.N. be
put on the agenda of the 50th U.N. General Assembly.
"This is a grave incident that willfully tramples on the purposes and
principles of the U.N. Charter and grossly interfere in China's
internal affairs," said Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Shen Guofang
in a statement at a routine press conference this afternoon.
"This has seriously violated China's sovereignty, brazenly interfered
in China's internal affairs, and deeply hurt the feelings of the
Chinese people. The Chinese Government and people strongly condemn such
act," Shen said.
The United Nations is an inter-governmental organization composed of
sovereign states. Only sovereign states are entitled to join the U.N.
"Taiwan has been an inalienable part of China's territory since ancient
times. As a province of China, Taiwan is in no position whatsoever to
'reenter' or join the U.N. in whatever form," he stated.
As early as 24 years ago, the 26th Session of the U.N. General Assembly
adopted, with overwhelming majority, the resolution that restored all
the legitimate rights of the People's Republic of China in the United
Nations and expelled the representatives of the Taiwan authorities from
the United Nations and all its agencies.
With this, the question of China's representation in the United Nations
has been justly and completely settled in the political, legal and
procedural terms, Shen said.
"Respect for state sovereignty and non-interference in other countries'
internal affairs is a fundamental principles of the U.N. Charter and
international law. The Taiwan question is purely an internal affairs of
China," Shen noted.
"Following two previous failures, Nicaragua and a few other countries,
obstinately clinging to their anti-China position and in total
disregard of the positions set out in the U.N. Charter and held by a
vast majority of U.N. member states, have once again put forward the
so-called "representation" of Taiwan in the U.N. This has seriously
violated China's sovereignty, brazenly interfered in China's internal
affairs, and deeply hurt the feelings of the Chinese people. The
Chinese Government and people strongly condemn such act," Shen said.
