DNA tests of blood are expected to be critical, setting the stage for a
complex battle of scientific experts.
The defense in such cases would typically want jurors who are not
experts at science and math, Troutwine said.
``In general, when you have a jury that doesn't understand evidence,
they tend to throw that evidence out,'' he said. ``Often juries will
side with the expert who states his case the most clearly.''
But Brown said the defense might want smarter jurors if their DNA
expert is on strong ground.
Brown doesn't use consultants, but he said he led in designing the
questionnaire that he and McCaskill used this summer to select the jury
for Denver Blackwell.
McCaskill won a first-degree murder verdict, but Brown forced a plea
deal in which Blackwell escaped the death penalty.
As for the Rush Limbaugh supporters on that jury, Brown said: ``I'd
rather know they're there than get blindsided. I tried to get rid of
them.''
But no matter how much you learn about jury candidates, Brown said,
``sometimes you have to go with a gut feeling.''
Patrick W. Peters put six persons on death row before he quit last year
as an assistant Jackson County prosecutor -- and he never used a
consultant.
``I'd rather look somebody in the face and ask him a question than have
reams of demographic data,'' Peters said.
He joked with potential jurors during voir dire, and he preached the
importance of jury selection like a minister selling the Bible.
Peters wanted to establish intimacy and trust with each juror. Those
feelings should last through trial, he said, and peak in closing
statements.
Peters didn't ignore the so-called old truisms -- older juries are
better, college-educated juries are more liberal and rural juries are
more conservative. But he didn't cling to them.
``Take a 55-year-old steelworker, a war veteran who has been the victim
of burglaries -- if I get the feeling he likes the defendant,
demographics be damned -- he's gone.''
The prosecutor also should use his voir dire questions to plant his
game plan in jurors' minds, Peters said. He would hint at that plan or
theme throughout trial and slam-dunk it home in closing statements.
In the Simpson case, for instance, Peters said prosecutors should work
on the concept that there is no perfect case. He said that's because
the defense ``will be holding up the standard of perfection.''
Defense lawyer Robert Beaird, who is listed in the Best Lawyers in
America, a peer-review book, also said he has no use for consultants.
``When you start classifying people by categories,'' he said, ``you
make a mistake. They can't pick my friends for me. That's what I want
is 12 friends.
``When you voir dire a jury, there is electricity, a contact with
people.''
Many lawyers and consultants try to make trials too technical, Beaird
said. ``A trial is no more complicated than selling a pair of shoes,''
he said.
``You've got your version of events, and what you are doing is selling
that,'' Beaird said. ``Juries are not into technicalities. They're
looking for someone in that room to lead them through a mass of
evidence.
A decade ago, Beaird said, area prosecutors -- although none would
admit it -- routinely struck black people off juries. A stereotyping
that blacks were soft on criminals was the accepted wisdom then, he
said, a bit of so-called science that often helped the defense.
``They'd strike all the blacks and leave on five white guys in
Harley-Davidson T-shirts, guys who would sympathize with me.''
Even with minorities on Simpson's jury, lawyers question whether it can
consist of the ideal ``fair cross-section.''
Beaird and Troutwine agree that the long Simpson trial -- expected to
last months -- could distort the jury pool. It might limit jurors, they
said, to people whose employers would pay them that long, or to the
retired or unemployed.
But the Superior Court judge on the case, Lance Ito, said this week
that he was pleasantly surprised at how many people want to be on the
jury.
He speculated as to why: ``It could be the hoopla factor.''
