Beshir: the "Islamic coup" general who has led Sudan to ruin
Seven years after a military coup put his "Islamic revolution" in
power, Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir, facing elections for the
first time, has led his country into isolation and economic ruin.
However, Beshir is expected to easily win in the vote to begin March 6,
in which the opposition has declared a boycott, no political parties
are allowed, and his 40 competitors in the race are all unknowns.
The general's opponents say the elections aim only to soften the image
of his regime which is plagued by accusations of supporting terrorism,
human rights violations and a deterioriating economy.
Sudan's neighbors, who quickly recognized Beshir's 1989 bloodless coup,
now stand almost unanimously against it, accusing it of stirring up
unrest on their soil.
Placed on the United States' list of nations backing terrorism in 1993,
Sudan now may face international sanctions after a UN resolution last
month demanding it hand over to Ethiopia three fugitive Moslem
militants.
General Beshir has responded by insisting on his country's innocence
and by loudly condemning the "international conspiracy" against it, all
the while vowing to preserve Sudan's "Islamic character."
Moreover, Sudan has seen a collapse of its currency from five pounds to
the dollar at the time of the coup to the current rate in private
exchanges of 950 to the dollar.
The president's enemies dismiss him as a figurehead for his
government's spiritual leader, Hassan Turabi, head of the National
Islamic Front (NIF).
A career military man, Beshir came to power heading a 15-member
military junta which toppled the elected government of Sadeq al-Mahdi
and dissolved political parties in the country's fourth army coup since
independence in 1956.
He immediately vowed to put an end to the bloody civil war between
northern Moslems and southern Christians and animists, announcing a
unilateral ceasefire and seeking peace talks through Kenyan mediators.
But his insistence on maintaining Islamic Sharia law instituted by his
predecessors alienated southern rebels. The war, now entering its 13th
year, rages on and has left well over a million dead.
Only months before the coup, Beshir had been promoted to brigadier in
the army for capturing one of the southern rebels' main strongholds.
After taking power, he promoted himself to lieutenant general and
commander in chief.
The president told a television interviewer recently he had long
planned to seize power "to save the country from the decrepit political
parties" which had run it under Mahdi.
Beshir, 53, was born to an itinerant farm worker and an illiterate
mother in the tiny village of Hosh Bannaga, 150 kilometers (90 miles)
north of Khartoum.
He told television that even in secondary school his "inborn Islamic
leanings" kept him from joining Communist students urging him to
cooperate with them.
But he also turned down Islamic fundamentalist students, instead
entering the military, where he began as an airborne units officer. He
later served in the south, becoming commander of the eighth army
infantry brigade.
Ironically, after taking paratrooper and higher military sources in
Cairo, Beshir earned a medal from the Egyptian military for serving
alongside it in a Sudanese infantry unit against the Israelis in the
1973 war.
Now Cairo accuses his government of training, arming and financing
Egyptian Moslem militants who attempted to kill Egyptian President
Hosni Mubarak in Addis Ababa last June.
The Sudanese leader keeps a tight lid on his private life, but is known
to have married in the early 1970s, although he has no children.
One of his six brothers was killed last month fighting against southern
rebels.
