Clinton, Yeltsin produce summit deal, but NATO discord continues
Presidents Bill Clinton and Boris Yeltsin struck a package of deals to
boost European security Friday while failing to overcome a dispute over
NATO's planned enlargement to former members of the Warsaw Pact.
Speaking at a joint news conference capping two days of talks, the
leaders of the two super-powers produced five joint statements -- one
on European security, one on a US-Russia economic initiative, three on
arms control.
Clinton, wheelchair-bound but vigorous and good-humoured, described the
accords reached at the two-day summit as "dramatic and very substantial
results that I'm very pleased with."
Yeltsin, on his first foreign trip in almost a year and also in
fighting form, agreed. "We made progress."
On the thorny issue of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's
expansion into central and east Europe "they continued to disagree"
with Yeltsin again underscoring "Russian concerns that NATO enlargement
will lead to a potentially threatening build-up," a joint statement
said.
But Clinton wrenched a significant concession from Yeltsin, who agreed
to speed up negotiations with NATO in the following weeks on a document
that would enshrine NATO-Russia ties.
In Brussels, NATO chief Javier Solana welcomed the accord as
"positive."
The document, bringing Russia closer to NATO, would be signed at the
highest political level by the 16 alliance members and Russia, and
would contain pledges of non-deployment by NATO of nuclear weapons and
troops on the territories of new member states, as well as provide for
joint decision-making.
Russia's agreement to hammer out such a pact, to be finalised "within
weeks" by Solana, is a major concession to the United States.
Moscow previously had demanded a cast-iron treaty ratified by the
parliaments of the NATO states, a demand rejected out of hand by NATO.
Yeltsin both maintained Russian pride and face by penning in his
opposition to enlargement -- a cause celebre at home -- and won key
pledges from the US side.
Clinton, criticised at home for being too soft on the Russians, for his
part yielded no ground on enlargement, his top foreign policy priority.
With the Russians clamouring to be allowed into major international
institutions, Clinton announced the next G7 summit of industrialised
nations in Denver in June would be a G8. He also pledged to help win
membership for Russia into other global clubs, such as the Paris Club,
the World Trade Organisation and the OECD.
Washington too will back US private investment in Russia in a bid to
boost Yeltsin's struggle to reform the country's flagging economy.
On European security, the two leaders announced a joint plan to reduce
strategic nuclear warheads in both countries to 2,000 to 2,500 each by
2007, an 80-percent cut in such weaponry compared with the peak levels
of the Cold War.
The final talks of the two-day summit in icy Helsinki, centered on
security in post-Cold War Europe and Russia's role on the continent
seven years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, took place in a secluded
modern villa surrounded by pine trees, overlooking the Baltic.
