Afghans haggle over peacekeeper numbers
Afghan leaders haggled Tuesday over the size of an international
peacekeeping force to be deployed in Kabul as US and Afghan forces searched
for traces of Osama bin Laden in the caves of Tora Bora.
One hundred British marines would be the first to arrive Saturday, the
inauguration day for an interim government led by Hamid Karzai.
As negotiations continued, US aircraft resumed bombing runs over Tora
Bora mountain in eastern Afghanistan and around the Taliban's former
stronghold of Kandahar in the south, US defence department spokesman
Richard McGraw said.
Afghan officials had told AFP the country's interim leaders had agreed
to accept 5,000 troops.
But a spokesman for Afghanistan's new defence minister, General
Mohammad Fahim, who last week said he wanted to limit the multinational
force to 1,000 troops, told the BBC the figure was wrong and there was
no accord.
US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, British Major General John McColl
-- who is tipped to lead the force -- and Fahim held talks on the size
of the force on Sunday at Bagram air base north of Kabul.
"They have agreed on 5,000 or more peacekeepers but they have not
signed anything yet," defence ministry official Barna Salihi, who
attended the meeting, told AFP.
Another ministry official, Doctor Gulbuddin, said: "The problem is no
longer the size of the force, it is its mission and where it will be
based."
He said the sticking points were whether foreign soldiers would patrol
the capital, Kabul, and if they would be authorised by the United
Nations Security Council to use force under Chapter 7 of the UN
Charter, which permits offensive action.
A multinational force was part of the agreement struck in Bonn on
December 5 under which Karzai, who was in Rome for talks with
Afghanistan's exiled former king, Mohammed Zahir Shah, will take power
on Saturday.
The British defence ministry said the first 100 British troops would
arrive in Kabul on Saturday. Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday
that Britain was likely to contribute up to 1,500 troops.
At least 16 countries have offered to contribute to the force. Most
attended a meeting in London last week on the force.
The hunt for bin Laden -- the accused mastermind of the September 11
attacks on New York and Washington -- continued in the White Mountain
range in eastern Afghanistan.
Western special forces were seen searching abandoned caves and al-Qaeda
installations in the mountains and fired in the air to keep two AFP
journalists away.
Pakistan also stepped up efforts to contain al-Qaeda fighters on the
Afghan side of the border, reportedly with the assistance of US special
forces troops.
"We have deployed regular troops, paramilitary forces, local police and
tribal militia to plug all possible entry and exit points," a senior
army official told AFP.
He said local tribes were helping the operation while helicopter
gunships were patrolling Pakistan's 2,500 kilometer (1,560-mile) border
with Afghanistan.
"I am not aware of the presence of US special forces but such
coordination is possible," he told AFP.
Rumsfeld said Sunday that up to 2,000 al-Qaeda fighters were trying to
flee across the mountains.
Meanwhile, Afghan tribal leaders hunting bin Laden's ally, Taliban
leader Mullah Mohammad Omar, said he was hiding near his former
stronghold of Kandahar.
Haji Gullalai, an intelligence chief in Kandahar, said he believed Omar
was holed up with some 500 men in a mountain hideout, according to the
BBC.
Gullalai said his forces were preparing to attack the hideout, which is
near the mountain village of Baghran in Helmand province, about 100
miles (160 kilometres) north of Kandahar.
Two US C-130 transport aircraft flying near Kandahar took evasive
action in the belief that two stinger missiles had been fired at them.
The Pentagon later attributed the incident to celebratory gunfire as
part of the Eid-al-Fitr festival, which marks the end of Muslim holy
month of Ramadan.
US forces did suffer another casualty Tuesday when a soldier stepped on
a landmine during a demining operation at Bagram airport, 50 kilometers
(31 miles) from Kabul, a US Central Command statement said.
On Sunday, three US marines were wounded, one of them seriously, while
helping clear unexploded ordnance around Kandahar airport.
