Disputing the romance of cigar euphoria, however, are anti-smoking
groups. Cigar smoking ``presents risks from cancer of the larynx, mouth
and esophagus,'' said Dr. Michael Thun, director of analytic
epidemiology for the American Cancer Society in Washington.
``Cigar smokers have a 2.5 times higher rate of lung cancer than
lifelong nonsmokers.''
Beyond this, the cancer society contends that the tobacco industry is
pushing cigars to glamorize smoking in general.
``The cigar smoker is a cuddly guy in a chair, and he has a better aura
than people who chew tobacco or smoke cigarettes,'' said Thomas Brandt,
a spokesman for the American Cancer Society.
Shanken, the magazine publisher, called the cancer society's statistics
on cigar smoking and health ``misleading'' because they were based in
part on decades-old studies of military veterans who smoked up to five
cigars a day, far more than the typical premium-brand smokers.
Most smokers of premium cigars do not inhale, and many light up less
than one cigar a day, ``so cigars don't have the health and addiction
burdens of cigarettes,'' Shanken contended.
The Cigar Association, a 54-year-old trade group representing 60
manufacturers, importers and suppliers, estimates that there are six
million to eight million cigar smokers in the United States, and it
says the number is growing.
Retailers agree. ``Our sales were up 50 percent in 1993, and 50 percent
in 1994, which amounts to a 125 percent increase over two years, which
is amazing,'' said Lewis Rothman, president of JR Tobacco Inc. of
Statesville, N.C., whose mail-order, wholesale and retail businesses
provide 40 percent of the premium cigars sold in the United States.
``And there is no sign of this slowing down.''
Rothman has apologized in his mail-order catalogues for long waits on
the telephone. The delay, he says, is caused by a flood of younger
smokers who take more time to ask questions and place orders.
David Salz, president and chief executive of Alfred Dunhill Inc., the
pureyor of luxury clothing and smoking items that has 11 stores across
the United States, said, ``I've never seen growth like this.''
``Conservatively,'' he added, ``our cigar business is up more than 50
percent from a year ago.'' Last year the company posted $5 million in
revenues from cigars and accessories, compared with more than $3
million in 1993.
Indeed, men are taking courses to learn how to light up. The Manhattan
Dunhill store advertised its first ``Art of Smoking Seminar'' for 60
would-be smokers in November and was so overwhelmed that it scheduled
three more seminars. They were so overbooked that four more sessions
were planned, starting next month, and many companies are now
scheduling their own private seminars.
Cigar clubs are trying to capitalize on the boom. ``We've had a
terrific response so far,'' said Mark Grossich, co-owner of the Cigar
Bar, which opened last month in Manhattan. It offers a plush
English-gentlemen's-club ambiance; burnished cherry-paneled walls; a
dramatically lighted humidor, and stiff prices ($22 for a Dominican
Montecristo and $15 for a glass of 21-year-old Springbank malt whisky
from Scotland). Dunhill is a small investor.
A competitor, around the corner, is Le Cigar, which opened in November
to much celebrity fanfare in the old VIP room of Tatou, the Manhattan
nightclub.
``We are bringing back a whole romantic era, the Victorian smoking
room,'' said Ms. Robinson, the club's executive director. Both clubs
are open to the public.
Both clubs are considered to have the potential to expand nationally.
So sought after is the concept that the Cigar Bar is suing Le Cigar for
damages in New York State Supreme Court, contending infringement on its
trademark.
While men are the primary cigar lovers, retailers say their female
clientele is expanding rapidly, even though women account for just
one-tenth of 1 percent of all cigar smokers, according to the Cigar
Association.
``I don't smoke a cigar to prove a point,'' said Alicia Wilson, the
store manager of the Manhattan branch of Alfred Dunhill. ``It's just an
enjoyable experience. Of course, you do get some sidewards glances --
but then, women get sidewards glances for doing a lot of things.''
