Edberg continues jinx over Henman 
Sweden's former world number one Stefan Edberg continued his recent
domination of British hope Tim Henman here on Monday with a 6-4, 6-2
victory to advance into the second round of the ATP indoor tournament.
Edberg, who will quit the game next month in Stockholm when he plays
his final ATP Tour event at home, got up a break in the seventh game of
the opening set and closed out the set with an ace.
The 30-year-old Edberg, now standing a respectable 17th after an
earlier slide into the mid 30's, broke early in the second set and
never let 25th-ranked Henman into the contest to the delight of the
opening-night crowd.
"It's always tricky to play your first match of the week," said the
two-time Stuttgart winner.
Henman lost at the weekend in the semi-finals of the Ostrava tournament
to ultimate title winner David Prinosil.
It was his sixth loss in as many semi-finals and makes the world No. 25
the highest-ranked player on the ATP Tour not to have either won a
title or reached a final.
Frenchman Arnaud Boetsch gained revenge for a five set defeat last
summer at Wimbledon as he outlasted Alex Radulescu of Germany 6-7
(1/7), 7-6 (7/3), 6-4.
The Davis Cup player took two hours and 11 minutes to beat Radulescu,
who beat him 9-7 in the fifth set at Wimbledon in June. Radulescu went
on to the quarter-finals.
Boetsch, ranked 22, broke in the seventh game of the final set, failed
to take advantage of a match point at 5-3 but then served out the
victory in the next game to love.
"After my loss at Wimbledon, I'm very happy to have beaten him today,"
said the Swiss based Frenchman, who next faces Wimbledon champion
Richard Krajicek of the Netherlands.
"I'm glad for this revenge. He's a dangerous player, especially when
he's relaxed and serving well. In the second set he was all over my
second serves and it was tough to hold. But in the third I played more
aggressively and that made the difference," Boetsch added.
In other matches Czech Bohdan Ulihrach defeated Spaniard Alex Corretja
6-3, 6-1, while Dutchman Jan Siemerink beat German Hendrik Dreekmann
6-1, 7-5.
Australians had mixed results, with Swede Magnus Gustafsson eliminating
Jason Stoltenberg 6-4, 6-4, while Todd Woodbridge beat Czech Daniel
Vacek 4-6, 6-1, 6-4.
The indoor event features 19 of the world top 20 players -- Frenchman
Cedric Pioline withdrew on Monday with back pains.
The race to fill the remaining three positions at the ATP Tour
Championships in Hanover, Germany, is still going strong and could
produce more qualifiers after the final at Stuttgart on Sunday.
World number one Pete Sampras, U.S. and Australian Open finalist
Michael Chang, French Open champion Yevgeny Kafelnikov, Thomas Muster,
defending his title this week, and Croatian Goran Ivanisevic have
already qualified for the Championships.
Tuesday sees Chang play Woodbridge, Kafelnikov face Siemerink and
Krajicek versus Boetsch.
