CAIRO -- The total number of business opportunities, which were made
available through promotion activities on the Internet during the first
quarter of this year, has reached 1,635 in Egypt. The promotion activities
were conducted through the Internet site of the Ministry of Economy and
Foreign Trade, which was linked with about 162 international trade sites in
102 countries. Mustafa Said Ahmed, head of the website, said that some
3,372 commercial opportunities were distributed to 2,850 beneficiaries, and
5,793 services were rendered to those dealing with the site in the field of
commercial facilities. The promotional works, launched during the Cairo
International Fair, have resulted in concluding many contracts and
transactions between representatives of foreign companies and Egyptian
producers, with a total value of 180 million Egyptian pounds (52.17 million
U.S. dollars). JEDDAH -- The Arab Gulf Program for supporting the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Islamic Development Bank on
Tuesday agreed to work together in promoting human development,
particularly that of mothers and children. And they also agreed to
cooperate in the fields of health, training and supporting the small- and
medium-sized enterprises with a view to fighting poverty. AMMAN -- Jordan's
first nation-wide shopping festival is to be inaugurated in July to boost
sales across the kingdom in an apparent bid to spur its stagnant economy,
organizers said Wednesday. The shopping event will cover the kingdom's 12
major districts. Shops, restaurants, travel agencies and other service
industries are expected to lure customers with discounted prices, ranging
from 5 to 60 percent, and other forms of incentives will include "buy and
win" or "buy one and get one free." The festival, organized by private
business institutions in collaboration with the ministry of tourism and the
ministry of trade and industry, is expected to attract more tourists,
particularly from other Arab countries into the kingdom during the summer
season. CAIRO -- Egypt's Social Fund for Development (SFD) is to cooperate
with Chinese firms in manufacturing electrical equipment, the SFD secretary
general said on Wednesday.  Hussein el-Gammal said the SFD will study the
possibility of implementing joint ventures with the Chinese firms to
manufacture television, video and satellite receivers and other electrical
equipment, Egypt's Middle East News Agency reported. El-Gammal said the
fund is seeking to intensify cooperation with China through building a
model city for small-sized industries. The two countries have decided to
set up a fund for technology transfer and joint research projects, he
added. CAIRO -- Egyptian Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade Youssef
Boutros Ghali has ruled out privatization of state-owned banks at the
current stage, the Middle East News Agency reported on Wednesday. Speaking
at a symposium organized by the news agency last week, Ghali said the
government has not revoked an earlier decision to privatize the banks but
would not go ahead with the plan unless it is assured that the public
support the step. He added that about half of the country's over 60 banks
are private, under supervision of the Central Bank of Egypt.
