New Greece-Macedonia talks Thursday in Athens 
Greek and Macedonian negotiators will meet in Athens Thursday to
discuss opening liaison offices, five days after Greece lifted a
crippling 18-month economic embargo on its neighbor, a Greek spokesman
said.
The two countries signed in Skopje on Friday a memorandum to set the
practical conditions for resuming trade but did not specify details for
opening liaison offices in each other's capital.
Athens on Saturday officially lifted the economic embargo it
unilaterally imposed on Skopje 18 months ago in a row over the name of
the former Yugoslav republic, as well as its constitution and flag,
which Greece said implied territorial aims over its northern province
of the same name.
But on Monday, cross-border trade was still slow in picking up as no
trailer trucks or trains had yet crossed the Greek-Macedonian border.
"There are technical questions that remain to be settled but everything
will resume this week," a customs official at the Evzones border post
said.
He said that in all about 30 private Macedonian cars, holding about 50
people, have crossed the border since the weekend, mostly young people
wanting to visit Greece or businessmen.
Among articles in the memorandum was one specifying that trailer trucks
from both countries, traveling either to Greece or Macedonia or
crossing through these countries, will not be subject to taxes or be
required to submit any special permits.
Spokesman Telemaque Hytiris on Monday said this was a "major
development for Greek transport to central and northern Europe."
The memorandum also said that until liaison offices are opened, visas
will be delivered at the border on ready-made forms. The visa for entry
into Greece will refer to residents of the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia (FYROM), using the provisional name under which Skopje was
admitted to the United Nations in 1993.
The two countries, which signed an accord in New York on September 13
in which Macedonia agreed to alter its flag and constitution, are still
at loggerheads over Macedonia's name.
Hytiris reiterated that discussions on the name issue would begin at
the end of the month in New York.
