Turkey branded top violator of press freedoms 
With a record 78 journalists behind bars, Turkey was branded Friday the
worst offender of press freedoms by an independent press watchdog
organisation.
But Algeria remains the most dangerous country for journalists with
seven assassinations in 1996 that brought the death toll to 59 since
rebels began targeting reporters in 1993, the New York-based Committee
to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said.
A record number of 185 journalists were imprisoned worldwide in 1996,
up from 182 the previous year, according to the CPJ's annual report.
"Turkey is once again the single most egregious example of a government
that criminalizes independent reporting," CPJ director William Orme
said in a statement.
The Committee has focused much attention on the plight of Turkish
editor Ocak Isik Yurtcu who was sentenced to 16 years in prison in
December 1994 for his reporting of Ankara's ongoing conflict with
Kurdish fighters.
The number of detentions of journalists increased by 27 in Turkey and
the regime in Ankara outshines the next five worst offenders for its
attempts to silence the press, according to the report.
There were 18 journalists in prison in Ethiopia, 17 in China, 15 in
Kuwait, 8 in Nigeria and 8 in Burma.
Worldwide, 27 journalists were killed last year, much fewer than the
previous year when 57 journalists died in the line of duty.
Aside from the assassinations in Algeria, the war in Chechnya claimed
the lives of four journalists and investigative research in Ireland led
to the murder of crime reporter Veronica Guerin.
The report also lists the death of New York Times reporter Nathaniel
Nash in the April 3 crash of a US air force plane that also killed
commerce secretary Ron Brown.
For his war on secular journalists in Algeria, Abu Abdul Rahman Amin,
the leader of the Armed Islamic Group, was named enemy number one of
the press by the Committee.
The list of top ten offenders also includes the late Chinese patriarch
Deng Xiaoping, Nigerian President Sani Abacha and former Turkish prime
minister Mesut Yilmaz.
The others were: Tajik President Emomali Rakhmonov, Indonesian
President Suharto and Cuban President Fidel Castro, Saudi Arabia's King
Fahd, Kenya's President Daniel arap Moi and Slovakian Prime Minister
Vladimir Meciar.
Focusing on Asia, the report denounced efforts by regimes to block
access to the Internet and noted that journalists in Hong Kong were
warily awaiting the handover to Chinese rule in July.
It also singled out Vietnam in a special report outlining how reforms
launched in the late 1980s were facing an increasing number of
roadblocks and appealed to Hanoi to allow foreign correspondents to
report freely.
Formed in 1981, the Committee to Protect Journalists documents press
freedom violations and seeks to strengthen independent journalism
worldwide.
