Two million join mass prayers as World Moslem Congregation ends
At least two million people converged on a muddy field near the
Bangladesh town of Tongi on Monday for the biggest Moslem gathering
outside of the annual pilgrimage to Mecca.
Hundreds of thousands of people jammed roads to the industrial suburb
north of Dhaka where the mass prayer meeting to mark the end of the
annual World Moslem Congregation took place.
A cold winter drizzle at the venue, a field on the banks of the Turag
river, made conditions difficult. But it did not deter Moslems who came
from all over Bangladesh as well as participants at the Congregation
from the rest of the world.
Even an estimated 6,000 women turned up despite official appeals for
them to stay away because of the problems housing them and because
Moslem women are not encouraged to be near men.
A cold snap, which has reportedly killed some 200 people in Bangladesh,
contaminated food and left several hundred people ill at the festival.
Fire brigade officials said one boy drowned late Sunday when he slipped
into the Turag river.
Temperatures were expected to fall further on Monday.
But hundreds of thousands of people calmly prayed or listened to hymns
broadcast on loudspeakers. The organisers put up a giant kitchen to
help feed the piligrims but many still put up their own fires to cook.
Roads to Tongi were jammed with pilgrims, many on foot. The crowd
overspilled the 125 acres (50 hectares) set aside for the event and
several thousand people in the Dhaka suburb of Uttara prayed from their
homes. Those stuck in the jams prayed from the roofs of their buses,
trucks and cars that could not move further.
Organisers, the Tablig Jamaat, said the three-day event is the second
largest in the Islamic world after the Haj pilgrimage to Mecca.
"Participants from 62 countries, including from Europe, the United
States and Middle East are here," said international camp organiser,
Moulana Muhammad Nasim.
At the site, the field was turned into a human sea with followers
reciting hymns while waiting for prayers led by Moulana Enamul Hasan,
the Ameer, or chief of the New Delhi-based Biswa Tablig Markaj.
