French jobs crisis angers employers
French unemployment, which rose above three million in December, is
likely to increase for three or four months, Prime Minister Alain Juppe
warned on Thursday against a background of hostility from business
leaders.
Juppe issued the warning, mixed with confidence about prospects for a
reduction of interest rates by the Bank of France, as part of an
exercise to explain steps to boost growth which were announced on
Tuesday.
The measures have met with a shaky response even among some of his own
supporters, and have deepened hostility among many business leaders.
Juppe repeated a warning that the government would do no more to reduce
employment charges weighing on businesses unless employers employed
young people who form a big and sensitive part of the total of
unemployed.
But the leader of the employers' federation CNPF, Jean Gandois, has
reacted angrily to this approach.
Unemployment in November and December rose by 57,600, taking the total
to slightly more than three million for the first time since the spring
of 1995.
France has the fourth-highest unemployment rate, of 11.7 percent, in
the European Union, and Juppe acknowledged that unemployment was likely
to worsen "for three or four more months".
Speaking on French radio, he said: "It is vital that we reverse this
from the second half of the year."
He warned companies to give "fair exchange" for reductions of
employment charges by employing young people which was "a national
duty".
The government reduced the interest rate payable on a national savings
plan by one point to 3.5 percent on Tuesday and Juppe said other rate
cuts "would be desirable".
The monetary policy council of the Bank of France, which is independent
in setting monetary conditions provided it takes account of overall
government policy, was to meet later on Thursday and many analysts
expected that it would cut its key rates.
Juppe, referring to the relaxation of rates earlier in the week, said:
"This is a big success for the government's policy...It means that
international confidence in France has returned.
"Abroad it is accepted that France is once again a strong country, that
its finances are being managed properly."
But employers' leader Gandois, interviewed by the Le Figaro newspaper
on Thursday, urged Juppe to "cease blaming" companies and to offer a
coherent vision of the future.
Gandois said that the French public wanted above all to be reassured.
"What people need most is guarantees. They know that the people in
charge are not magicians who can do everything, but they are hoping for
clear explanations of where we are heading together."
The credibility of Juppe's plans had been undermined because a
succession of measures had had "no real effect".
He said: "One week a plan for the long-term unempoyed, the following
week a plan for young people, the week after a housing plan..."
The president of the UAP insurance company, Jacques Friedmann, told the
Les Echos newspaper, in remarks seen as referring to criticism of
industry by French President Jacques Chirac, that the approach of "fair
exchange" was wrong.
Chirac had complained that many companies had benefited from reductions
in employment charges without created jobs in return.
But Friedmann replied: "No companies pocket the advantages. Employment
depends on the economic, social and fiscal environment which is either
favourable or unfavourable to business activity.
"I am not sure that all of the specific measures, often costly, which
have been taken, have had a significant effect on employment."
Friedmann said that companies had moved on from the "fashion" of
shedding jobs because the inherent dangers that this would tear apart
the social fabric of their environment were too great. Directors
realised that the shedding of labour had to be the last solution.
Friedmann, with other company presidents, has set up an association to
create jobs through innovation.
