Bush holds up US as model for China in televised speech
President George W. Bush urged China to embrace
US-style democracy and religious freedom Friday as he wrapped up a
visit long on warm words but short on concrete progress in bridging
Sino-US divides.
"Life in America shows that liberty, paired with law, is not to be
feared. In a free society, diversity is not disorder, debate is not
strife, and dissent is not revolution," he said in a speech at
Beijing's elite Qinghua University.
The nationally televised address capped a week-long Asia trip that
included stops in Tokyo and Seoul and saw Bush meet with Chinese
President Jiang Zemin and his heir apparent, little-known career cadre
Hu Jintao.
The latter encounter, believed to be their formal introduction, came on
Friday, a day after officials announced that both Chinese leaders are
expected in the United States shortly before an October meeting of
Asia-Pacific leaders.
Fresh from sizing up the likely future leader of the world's most
populous nation, Bush opened his speech with a few words about Hu, a
Qinghua alumnus, saying: "I know how important this place is to your
vice president."
"He not only received his degree here, but more importantly, he met his
gracious wife here," Bush said, adding a touch of personal warmth.
After his speech, Bush visited a section of the Great Wall near Beijing
before departing for home on Air Force One, ending a visit given added
resonance as it fell exactly 30 years after then-US president Richard
Nixon's landmark trip.
However, Bush's Thursday's meeting with Jiang failed to yield a
hoped-for breakthrough deal under which China would curb sales of
missile technology or the easing of a standoff on free trade involving
soybeans.
Bush aides said lower-level discussions would focus on hammering out
differences on both issues and that Bush had merely intended to signal
at the highest level the importance he attaches to the two matters.
Bush weathered a blizzard of questions about Taiwan policy following
his speech, refusing to budge on his comments a day earlier that he
favors "peaceful settlement" of tensions with the mainland.
"I hope it happens in my lifetime," said the president, who drew wild
applause when he restated support for the "One China" policy under
which Taiwan, which Beijing considers an estranged province, is part of
China.
The crowd also warmly appreciated his statement that "America welcomes
the emergence of a strong, peaceful and prosperous China", a sharp
departure from his erstwhile description of Beijing as Washington's
"strategic competitor".
But differences remained on a host of topics, including traditional
irritants to Sino-US ties like Beijing's record on human rights and
freedom of worship, which Bush targeted in his university address.
Apparently taking aim at Jiang's assertion a day earlier that some
believers in Chinese jails are "law-breakers", Bush asserted: "They are
no threat to public order. In fact, they make good citizens."
"My prayer is that all persecution will end, so that all in China are
free to gather and worship as they wish," stressed Bush, who aides said
raised the issue of religious freedom in his closed-door session with
Jiang.
Washington set the stage for the traditionally acrimonious discussion
of Beijing's record on religious freedom before the visit by formally
protesting the treatment here of US-based followers of the banned
Falungong sect.
Bush also turned visiting professor, quoting former Chinese leader Deng
Xiaoping's prediction that China would "eventually expand democratic
elections all the way to the national level".
"I look forward to that day," he said.
Bush also said Beijing must adopt "consistent rule of law" now that it
has joined the WTO.
At a joint press conference with Jiang on Thursday, Bush revealed he
had sought the Chinese leader's help in kick-starting stalled US talks
with North Korea aimed at curbing Pyonyang's feared weapons programs.
Bush's host seemed receptive, but stopped short of saying he would
intercede.
Jiang additionally used the press conference to urge Washington to show
patience in its war against terrorism, emphasizing peace in dealing
with Iraq, which could be the next target in the campaign launched in
the wake of the September 11 attacks in the United States.
Asked what changes he has noticed in China since his father headed the
US liaison here a quarter-century ago, the US leader didn't hesitate:
"In 1975 everybody wore the same clothes," said Bush.
"Now people pick their own clothes, just look here on the front row,
everybody's dressed differently," he said, to laughter.
