U.S. Expels Russian Diplomat on Espionage Charge
The U.S. State Department declared on Thursday the Russian diplomat,
Stanislav Borisovic Gusev, who was first identified as a second
secretary and later as an attache in the Russian embassy, " persona non
grata" in Washington by the State Department.
"Counterintelligence agents of the FBI and the State Department 's
Diplomatic Security Service have worked jointly to neutralize this
intelligence-gathering effort," Assistant Secretary of State David
Carpenter told a special briefing at the State Department.
"This episode should be a stark reminder to all of us at government
that despite the thawing of tensions between competing nations,
government facilities and personnel remain a desirable target for
foreign intelligence services," Carpenter said.
"This matter reinforces the department's belief that its
counterintelligence program must remain a cornerstone of its overall
security posture," he added.
Speaking at the same briefing, Assistant Director Neil Gallagher of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said the incident was "a very
important story of Russian intelligence activity within the United
States."
The U.S. officials said that a U.S. surveillance team made an
observation that Stanislav Gusev was standing in the vicinity of State
Department, and "it took them as a little bit odd."
"Over a period of some time, what they identified was that on a rather
frequent basis, each week, Mr. Gusev would show up in the vicinity of
State Department, literally just walking around the surrounding
street," Gallagher said.
The team also noticed that Gusev's manner in parking his car and the
way that he located -- where he located his car -- was a little bit
unusual, and it suggested to them that this may take on some more
significance, according to the officials.
The officials said eavesdropping devices were put into sensitive areas
of the State Department, but no such device was found in Secretary
Madeleine Albright's office.
Gusev was arrested Wednesday on a bench outside the State Department,
where President Bill Clinton was holding a press conference. Gusev was
later turned to the Russian embassy and ordered to leave within 10
days.
Clinton was kept informed of the case over the course of investigation.
The Russian authorities ordered the expulsion of a U.S. diplomat in
Moscow, charging that the diplomat, identified as Cheri Leberknight,
has tried to steal Russia's secret military information.
However, the U.S. law enforcement said that the U.S. move should not be
seen as a retaliation measure. Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder said
the arrest of Gusev was not "a question of any retaliation" for
Russia's action, adding, "They are separate matters."
