Common Pain Reliever Slowed Lung Decline in Children With Cystic Fibrosis
High doses of a common pain reliever slowed lung deterioration by 90
percent over four years in children with cystic fibrosis, a study
found.
The benefits of ibuprofen -- sold under such brand names as Advil,
Nuprin and Motrin -- were most dramatic in children ages 5 to 13 who
consistently took it twice a day in addition to conventional treatments
with other drugs, the study's authors said. Ibuprofen might also have
some reduced benefit in older patients, the researchers said.
The pain reliever is sold in the United States without a perscription.
``I think this study suggests it's a valid therapy to introduce into
the clinic,'' said one of the authors, Dr. Pamela Davis of Rainbow
Babies and Childrens Hospital in Cleveland. The study appears Thursday
in the New England Journal of Medicine.
Doctors agreed that the addition of the new treatment is likely to
increase the life expectancy of cystic fibrosis patients, although it
will be years before that is proven. With current treatments, half of
the 1,000 new patients diagnosed each year die before age 30.
Davis cautioned patients not to begin treating themselves with the
drug, because it can have harmful side effects if it isn't used
correctly. It can harm the stomach and kidneys and interfere with other
drugs used to treat cystic fibrosis, she said.
``One of the things we're worried about is that the drug is available
over the counter. We would absolutely not suggest that CF patients go
down to the drug store and buy the drug and start popping it,'' she
said.
Part of the lung damage that occurs in cystic fibrosis is caused by
inflammation of the lungs. Ibuprofen, an anti-inflammatory, helps to
control that.
Cystic fibrosis is the most common fatal inherited disease of
Americans. About 30,000 Americans, mostly whites, are afflicted with
the disease, and one in 25 white Americans is a carrier of the CF gene.
The disease occurs only in those who get two copies of the gene, one
from each parent.
Davis and her colleagues studied 85 patients ages 5 to 39. Some were
given ibuprofen and some were given placebo for a period of four years.
Doses were adjusted individually, with some patients taking the
equivalent of 16 over-the-counter tablets a day. The recommended dose
is normally one or two tablets every four to six hours, with a maximum
of six tablets in 24 hours.
In a standard measure of lung function in which patients are asked to
exhale as quickly as they can, the researchers saw a 16 percent decline
in the placebo group over the four years, compared with only a 2
percent decline in the members of the ibuprofen group ages 5 to 13 who
took their medication consistently.
That represents a slowing of 90 percent in lung deterioration, she
said. The numbers were corrected to allow for growth of the children
during the time they were studied, she said.
