Protest against Paye at French embassy 
A group of elderly disabled men staged a noisy one-hour blockade of the
French embassy here Monday to protest a visit by French presidential
envoy Jean-Claude Paye, sources close to the embassy said.
The group of some 20 men, some of whom were amputees, shouted slogans
denouncing last year's decision by the French privatization commission
to reject a bid by Daewoo Electronics to take over Thomson Multimedia.
They waved canes, tussled with security guards and prevented an embassy
car carrying Paye and ambassador Domninique Perreau from entering the
mission, the sources said.
Paye and Perreau had to enter the embassy on foot and then leave again
on foot so that Paye could make appointments with top South Korean
ministers.
"The special French envoy should have been kicked out the minute he set
foot at Kimpo Airport," the protestors said in a manifesto handed over
to embassy officials.
The main purpose of Paye's three-day visit to South Korea, where he is
scheduled to meet President Kim Young-Sam on Tuesday, is to explain to
Seoul the relations between his government and the privatization
commission which rejected the Daewoo bid.
The decision triggered an outcry in South Korea with some MP's
suggesting that the decision had been racist, and others demanding that
the government review French contracts in South Korea.
South Korean police were not in evidence at the demonstration,
apparently preoccupied with massive strikes against a new South Korean
labor law.
In the manifesto the group said: "France received great benefit from
South Korea when it was selected as the main contractor for the the TGV
(Train a grande vitesse -- the 2.1 billion dollar high speed train
contract won by GEC-Alsthom in 1994). But the French government
returned the favor with a total ignorance of our people."
"Our government should take punitive measures by cancelling the
contract of the TGV, which has showed some malfuntioning in Europe
because of the cold," it said, adding a call for a boycott of French
goods.
Paye, who arrived early Monday, however managed to make his
appointments with Foreign Minister Yoo Chong-Ha and Finance and Economy
Minister Han Seung-Soo.
