Finchem is a dapper man, small of frame, standing about 5 feet 7
inches. His suits are perfectly tailored, his nails are manicured and
his dark, slightly wavy hair is held captive by some
industrial-strength mousse.
Since taking over for Beman, who resigned March 1, 1994, after 20 years
on the job, he has worked mostly 12 to 14 hours a day, rising at 5 A.M.
to work out and laboring at the office through the day and into the
evening.
``I am a workaholic,'' he admitted. ``But the demands of this job are
formidable. I've learned that there's a big difference between being
the No. 1 guy and the No. 2 guy in terms of responsibility.''
It is also a different game in terms of exposure. That Finchem is an
emerging force in the big-time world of sports commissioners is a
given, but just where does he fit?
Paul Tagliabue, the National Football League commissioner, had the good
fortune of taking over for Pete Rozelle, one of the smoothest public
relations men of all time. David Stern, the National Basketball
Association commissioner, took over a drug-infested, fiscally faltering
league, instituted Draconian anti-drug policies and a salary cap, and
resuscitated the game.
For this, by the way, he is paid more than many of the players.
The jury is still out on Stern's disciple, Gary Bettman, the National
Hockey League commissioner who at least was able to convince the hockey
owners that it was a bad idea to kill their sport just when people were
starting to notice it. There essentially is no baseball commissioner,
and boxing and tennis are promoter-driven nightmares.
Finchem, who earns $700,000 a year plus bonuses that could push him
over $1 million, presides over a sport with possibly the cleanest image
of all.
``I've said many times that the image of our sport is the most
important thing we have,'' Finchem said.
He really believes that. Example: When Craig Stadler was hit with a
two-stroke penalty at the Mercedes Championships for allegedly teeing
off late -- even though he was on the tee and wasn't announced -- there
was some negative press.
Finchem, who doesn't mind a fight but deplores controversy, issued a
three-page document clarifying Rule 6-3 and sent it to the tour rules
officials.
When he came into the job, he seemed at first glance to be similar to
his predecessor, Beman, the tough, confrontational bulldog of a man who
oversaw huge growth on the tour: assets increased from $730,000 in 1974
to more than $200 million in 1994, with total revenues up from $3.9
million to $229 million under Beman. But Finchem is not nearly as
combative as Beman. He is a bridge-builder.
