Drinking water supply grows in Goma by Bruno Franceschi 
Safe drinking water has begun to arrive in this Zairean border region
and started to reach some of the estimated 1.2 million Rwandan refugees
crowded into surrounding camps, UN officials said Tuesday.
Aid staff working for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
estimated current supplies at two million litres (520,000 gallons) a
day, distributed to the refugees by thirty water tankers.
Nine more tankers, given by Finland and brought in by US troops, should
arrive in the town later in the day, UNHCR spokesman Ray Wilkinson
said.
Doctors estimate daily needs at a minimum of five million litres (1.3
million gallons) or around five litres per person.
But a French army doctor, Colonel Francois Merouze said "everybody
could benefit from having between 15 and 20 litres of water a day, not
only for drinking but also to wash themselves and for cooking.
In the west, average daily consumption is around 400 litres a day, he
said.
In Goma, water treatment is being run mainly by US army units using
equipment which produce 100,000 litres (24,000 gallons) of drinking
water an hour, drawn out of the nearby Lake Kivu and treated.
Good supplies of water, along with improved hygiene, an efficient
sewerage system and decent food are the bare necessities for stopping
the spread of the cholera and dysentery epidemics killing people here.
After cholera, dysentery is becoming the major killer, the medical
charity Medecins Sans Frontieres said at the weekend.
The UN Children's Fund UNICEF, helped by two humanitarian organisation,
has launched a vacination programme for children aged six months to 12
years against measles. Some 35 percent of them have measles, UNICEF
spokesman Moncef Bouhafa said.
UNHCR spokeswoman Sylvana Foa said in Geneva on Tuesday that the best
"estimate" was that that some 22,000 people had died from the various
epidemics sweeping the camps and from dehydration and exhaustion. UNHCR
headquarters in Geneva said Monday that it though that 50,000 had died
but Wilkinson said he thought that was an exaggeration.
Around 800 to 900 people were dying a day, he said, admitting that all
the figures coming from the camps were "rough estimates."
At the same time, the World Food Programme said it would be able to
bring in 250 to 300 tonnes of food a day by the end of the week, which
should in theory be enough to cover the refugees' food needs, the
organisation's spokeswoman, Gillian Hazell, said.
The WFP said meanwhile it had decided against transporting refugees
from Goma back to Kigali in its food trucks, even once emptied of food,
in order to avoid the risk of spreading cholera and other diseases
through Rwanda.
