APEC officials head for last-minute accord on 'sensitive' sectors
Senior officials of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum
were headed for last-minute accord on an ambitious 25-year free trade
pact Tuesday as ministers gathered for annual talks.
The summit's success had been threatened by differences over the
treatment of sensitive sectors such as agriculture, which some members
wanted to exempt from the agreement.
A senior official said the latest draft, agreed after a 1-1/2-day
informal meeting, removes references to "differential treatment" and
"sectoral specificity," code words among international trade
negotiators for agriculture.
The official, who asked not to be named, said the new draft, while
continuing to emphasise the need for flexibility in liberalising trade
and investment, also took into account "diverse circumstances" among
APEC members.
Under an ageement reached by APEC leaders last year at a summit in
Bogor, Indonesia, industrialised members are supposed to achieve free
and open trade and investment in the region by 2010 with developing
members following by 2020.
Japan and a minority of the group's 18 members including China, South
Korea and Taiwan had been seeking special treatment for sensitive
sectors such as agriculture.
Other members including Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, New Zealand,
Singapore, Thailand and the United States argued that any such
concession could lead to exceptions in a multitude of other areas.
Despite broad agreement on the latest draft, the unnamed senior
official said South Korea and China had yet to come to the party on
non-discriminatory free trade.
But he indicated that Taiwan had accepted the compromise draft and
hinted Japan was ready to accept.
Tony Miller, director-general of Hong Kong's trade department, said the
flexible approach would not undermine the spirit of the Bogor
declaration.
"We don't regard flexibility as something which is going to in any way
inhibit the comprehensive nature of this exercise," Miller told
reporters.
But he said that non-discrimination remained one of the outstanding
issues among the officials, referring to the continued impasse between
the United States and China over bilateral trade issues.
"The whole liberalisation process is to be conducted in accordance with
the Bogor declaration, which specifies non-discrimination and in
particular open regionalism," Miller said.
Senior officials were expected to hold a series of informal bilateral
meetings before ministers dine late Wednesday and begin formal talks
Thursday.
The leaders meet Sunday for their annual summit.
APEC groups Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong,
Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New
Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and the United
States.
