India win one-day series against New Zealand 
Hosts India warded off a deadly burst from New Zealand seamer Simon
Doull to win the final one-day international by six wickets here
Wednesday and take the series 3-2.
Doull, making his only appearance on the tour in place of the injured
Chris Cairns, grabbed three wickets in two overs as the Indians made
heavy weather of chasing a moderate target of 127 in the decider.
Slammed for 27 runs in his first two overs, the bald Doull hit back by
removing Vinod Kambli, skipper Mohammad Azharuddin and Sanjay Manjrekar
in the space of six deliveries to raise visions of an upset win.
But the Indians held their ground to cruise home with 18 overs to spare
and complete a grand double, following their 1-0 win in the rain-hit
three-Test series.
Doull's spell livened up a seemingly one-sided contest after the Kiwis,
without the injured Martin Crowe, folded up for a meagre 126 in 35
overs, their lowest one-day score against India.
The match was played in the shadow of Sunday's tragedy in Nagpur, where
10 fans were killed and 70 others injured when a stadium wall collapsed
during the previous international.
Still, some 40,000 spectators turned up at the Brabourne stadium, a
test venue till 1972, to witness the match, earmarked as a benefit game
for former Indian wicket-keeper Syed Kirmani.
They had reason to celebrate as New Zealand, whose 348 for eight in
Nagpur was the third highest score ever in limited-overs cricket, were
bundled out 16 short of their previous lowest total against India --
142 at Auckland last year.
Skipper Lee Germon's 29 was the top score against the steady attack in
which spinners Anil Kumble and Ashish Kapoor shared five wickets. The
agile Azharuddin chipped in with two run outs.
When India began their reply, Danny Morrison gave New Zealand the
initial breakthrough by bowling Sachin Tendulkar for one in the third
over.
Left-handed Kambli made 48, taking 16 off Doull's second over, before
falling to a brilliant diving catch by Mark Greatbatch in the bowler's
next over.
Fired by his first success, Doull had Azharuddin caught behind, and
Manjrekar taken at square leg, in his fourth over as India slipped to
75 for four by the 15th.
The fifth-wicket pair of Manoj Prabhakar and Ajay Jadeja denied New
Zealand further success, but struggled for 17 overs to score the
remaining 52 runs for victory.
"It was a timely win, especially since this was our last match before
the World Cup" said Azharuddin, under whom India have not lost a home
series in both test and one-day cricket since 1990.
"The boys are confidently looking forward to the World Cup. That's the
ultimate prize. God willing, we will win that one too, but we have to
work hard on our fielding," the Indian skipper said.
New Zealand manager Glen Turner complimented the Indians, and said the
tour had given his young team first-hand experience of what to expect
during the World Cup.
"The tour was a good education for the players. They rallied together
in unfamiliar conditions, and will be better off when they return here
in two months for the World Cup," Turner said.
Indian seamer Javagal Srinath won the man of the match award for his
two early wickets in New Zealand's innings. Prabhakar was declared the
man of the series.
