Australian cricket union flags unfair dismissal litigation 
The chief of Australia's cricketers' union Tuesday flagged the
possibility of disgruntled players one day suing selection bodies if
they lost lucrative playing contracts.
Australian Cricketers Association (ACA) chief executive Tim May said
cricket administrators had to be prepared for players suing for unfair
dismissal the same way a sacked worker could take legal action against
their employer.
May said he had not encountered any cases of litigation based on team
or squad selection in world cricket, but acknowledged players could one
day sue selection panels if they had their playing contracts
terminated.
He said selecting sporting teams or squads was an opinion-based
decision, but he could not say if the ACA would support a player who
sued their selectors.
"It's not an issue the ACA has determined a stand on," May said
Tuesday.
"In the first instance we realise we are here for the collective and if
we did back a player it's an issue that must apply to all of our
constituency and we would have to see if it's an issue that we would
support."
May said it was up to individual cricket boards to establish conditions
to either prevent them being taken to court over selection disputes or
initiate criteria for terminating contracts, such as a three-point
warning system similar to those in the workplace.
"Rules and regulations have been in existence for a long period of time
but players can now make a career out of sport and that can be
regulated in courts of law," he said.
This season two of Australia's high-profile Test players, Colin Miller
and Michael Slater, have fallen out of favour with their state
selectors despite contracted by the Australian Cricket Board.
Miller, the reigning Australian Test player of the year, has played
only four matches for the struggling Victorian team and was dropped for
the match against New South Wales last weekend, which Victoria won by
10 wickets.
Slater, despite 74 Tests, was also overlooked by NSW selectors after a
poor season with the bat in which he has averaged 25 in the Sheffield
Shield, making the pair the best-paid club cricketers in the country.
