TUNIS Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi has rejected a proposal made by the
U.S. and Britain to allow two Libyans suspected of blowing up a Pan Am
flight to be tried in the Netherlands. Addressing a gathering in Tripoli
late Saturday, Gaddafi said that this is not the trial in a third country
that Libya has demanded but a deal "to make the third country a transit
point to transfer the accused to Britain." The U.S. and Britain called for
the trial of the two Libyans in the Netherlands. If found guilty, they
would serve their jail terms in Britain. The 1988 bombing of the Pan Am jet
over Lockerbie, Scotland, killed 270 people.
(BC-Libya-Lockerbie-Rejection) - - - - CAIRO -- The Palestinians have
pinned little hope on U.S. Mideast peace envoy Dennis Ross' upcoming
Mideast trip, Egypt's Middle East News Agency said Sunday. Farouk Qadoumi,
chairman of the Palestinian Liberation Organization Political Department
Sunday cast doubt over Ross' ability to broker a Palestinian-Israeli deal
on the Israeli reployment in the West Bank, saying "Ross is a failure." The
senior Palestinian official also said Israel does not want peace and keeps
on raising tensions in the Mideast region, the senior Palestinian official
said. (BC-Palestine-US Envoy) - - - - AMMAN -- Jordan and Turkey renewed
their denial Sunday that they are trying to build a military alliance to
contain other states in the Mideast region. Jordanian Crown Prince Hassan,
the Regent, and visiting Turkish Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz made the
denial at a joint press conference after their meeting. Jordan and Turkey,
together with Israel, which receive large economic and military aid from
the U.S.  every year, have been long considered as trying to build a
military alliance to help the U.S. control the region.
(BC-Jordan-Turkey-Alliance Denial) - - - - JERUSALEM -- Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Sunday denied reports that he had held a series
of secret meetings with Palestinians and achieved progress over Israeli
further redeployment in West Bank. The denial came after a number of
ministers, led by National Infrastructure Minister Ariel Sharon, complained
that they were not informed of the reported meetings. Reports said that Abu
Ala had held 10 rounds of talks with Israeli officials in the last two
weeks, including three with Netanyahu. The reports also said that the talks
had yielded a draft agreement on some key issues, including the scope of
the second Israeli troop withdrawal from the West Bank, the security
cooperation, the operation of a Palestinian airport and a sea port in Gaza,
and the release of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel.
(BC-Israel-Netanyahu-Palestinians) - - - - JERUSALEM -- Israeli police
arrested eight Palestinians in the Shufat refugee camp Sunday following
Saturday's clashes between Israeli police and refugees, the Israel Radio
said. Israeli police have the duty to maintain order in the camp and more
arrests will be carried out, the Radio quoted Israeli police officers as
saying. The clashes erupted when an Israeli ambulance, which was called to
pick up a refugee patient, refused to enter the camp without the escort of
the Israeli police and the Palestinian died of heart attack due to the
delay of treatment. The angered Palestinians threw stones and firebombs at
the ambulance and Israeli police, and the Israeli police fired back with
rubber bullets and tear gas, in which five Israeli policemen and 15
Palestinians were injured.  (BC-Israel-Camp-Arrest)
