No Crisis With Traditional Leaders: S. African President 
South African President Thabo Mbeki Saturday night expressed hope that
the unresolved issue around traditional leadership would not cause a
crisis for the December 5 local government elections.
Addressing members of the Windsor community in Ladysmith in
northeastern KwaZulu-Natal Province, Mbeki said an agreement has been
reached with traditional leaders to go ahead with the poll.
"I hope everybody will cooperate to ensure free and fair elections and
that there will be no crisis," he said.
After the elections, he said, the government would immediately start
reviewing the 1,500 pieces of legislation pertaining to traditional
leaders.
This should clear up the relationship between traditional and
democratic leadership in which both forms are recognized, he said.
But he said "this can't be done overnight" because interim legislation
relating to the powers of traditional leaders can not be finalized.
The National Assembly and the Council of Provinces can only convene
after the elections, he said.
"This is a parliamentary procedure," the South African president
explained. "As for government, we are quite ready to move on the
interim measures immediately after the elections."
He said the government hopes to deal with the review of legislation on
traditional leaders by June next year.
"It is clear that we have to put certain things in place through
legislation as not to diminish the powers of traditional leaders," he
stressed.
A controversial Municipal Structures Second Amendment Bill was
withdrawn on Friday because of fears that it is not constitutional.
The bill, which deals with the role of traditional leaders under the
new municipal dispensation, was to have been reviewed in the parliament
ahead of the December 5 municipal poll, ostensibly to accommodate the
concerns of traditional leaders.
Traditional leaders were reportedly unhappy about the bill which they
said would reduce their power in the process of demarcating land under
their control. Mbeki's speech was intended to relieve such concerns.
