China Determined to Curb Price Hike 
Chinese Premier Li Peng said here today that the Chinese government
will resolutely control the margin of price rise, aiming to ensure that
price rises slow down considerably as compared with last year and stay
at around 15 per cent.
In the Report on the Work of the Government delivered to the Third
Session of the Eighth National People's Congress (NPC), Li admitted
that "an evident problem last year is the excessive rise in prices."
In the work report last year, Li said that the retail prices should be
kept from rising by more than 10 percent.
"Although we made great efforts in this respect, retail prices rose by
21.7 percent, of which about 13 percentage points resulted from the
rise in prices of foods," he said. "All this aroused great resentment
in the masses."
To put the price rise under control, Li said that the Chinese
government will take measures in the follow four aspects:
Firstly, vigorous efforts will be made to develop agricultural
production and increase supplies.
Secondly, the government will continue controlling the quantity of
currency issued and the scale of credit by applying a moderately tight
financial policy and keeping expenditures within the limit of income.
He said that the deficit in the central budget should not exceed that
of the previous year; and the local finance should maintain a balance
between revenue and expenditure; and the management of extrabudgetary
funds should be stepped up.
Thirdly, Li said, the scale of investment in fixed assets should be
brought under control and so should the excessive growth of consumption
funds.
And fourthly, China will deepen the reform of the circulation system,
step up the building of a market system, cut down on circulation
intermediaries and lower circulation charges.
Since China is a developing country, Li said, only moderate consumption
is applicable and a high level of consumption should not be advocated.
It is necessary to adhere over a long period of time to the principle
of plain living and hard struggle and of building up the country with
industry and thrift, Li said. "Extravagance and waste should be
rejected."
Li pointed out that effective measures should be adopted this year to
improve the living standard of people in both urban and rural areas,
but the growth of funds for consumption should be slower than the
growth of the economy, and the rise in incomes of staff and workers
should be lower than that of labor productivity.
"We should be concerned with the living conditions of people in
poverty-stricken areas, the low-income earners and retirees, and
earnestly help solve their difficulties," he said.
Li articulated that China will strengthen the control and supervision
over prices, especially those for daily necessities, improve the order
of circulation, oppose unfair competition, and take strong measures to
crack down on the production and sale of fake or poor quality
commodities and the making of exorbitant profits.
The readjustments in pricing have been carried out fairly quickly in
recent years, he said. The task this year is to offset the effect of
price rises in the past few years and generally speaking, no new
price-regulating measures will be taken. The pricing reform should
focus on establishing and improving the system of market management and
price control.
Li admitted that such a sharp rise in prices last year was due both to
objective reasons and to mistakes of governments at all levels.
First, last year China readjusted the prices for many commodities and
adopted many reform measures that affected prices. But the government
had underestimated the repercussions of these measures.
Second, China invested insufficiently in agriculture. Some areas
slackened their efforts to produce grain and implement the "market
basket" project, which resulted in a sharp rise in the prices of
agricultural products.
Third, there had been a rapid growth of investment in fixed assets and
consumption funds, and too much currency had been put into circulation
for several years running. The government did not take emergency
measures to stop these practices or launch an overall austerity program
in order to prevent a sharp decrease in economic growth, but thereby
increased the difficulty in curbing price rises.
Fourth, management of the market and prices was slackened to some
extent. The legal system was not yet sound; the market still needed to
be standardized; there were too many price rises and charges were
common.
Li said that under the circumstances of socialist market economy, it is
necessary for the government to control and administrate the prizes of
some commodities essential to the national economy and people's
livelihood.
