Li Peng on Principles Guiding Development of Sino-Latin 
Chinese Premier Li Peng today put forth five principles guiding the
development of relations between China and Latin America and outlined
the focus in enlarging economic and trade cooperation between them.
In a speech at the headquarters of Latin-american Economic System here
this morning, Li Peng said China attaches great importance to the
development of its relations with Latin America.
The five principles put forth by the Chinese Premier for guiding the
development of relations between China and Latin America are:
-- strengthening political dialogue between countries to increase
mutual understanding and trust;
-- engaging in economic and technological cooperation in various forms
to promote common development;
-- increasing people-to-people exchange to enlarge the areas for
exchange and cooperation;
-- supporting each other in international affairs to safeguarding the
interests of developing countries;
-- and seeking to establish normal state relations with those countries
which have not established diplomatic ties with China on the principles
of peace and co-existence.
In his speech, Li also proposed four areas of priority for enlarging
economic and trade cooperation between China and countries in Latin
America and the Caribbean Region.
The four aspects of priority for enlarging cooperation include:
-- enthusiastically enlarging bilateral trade;
-- endeavoring to develop cooperation between enterprises;
-- attaching importance to the development and utilization of natural
resources through the form of joint venture;
-- and strengthening exchanges in science and technology.
Li's speech also covered progress made in the development of ties and
cooperation between China and Latin America, China's development and
the gains borne out of his current three-nation Latin-American tour.
The Chinese premier called for joint efforts to open a new chapter in
the development of relations between China and Latin America.
Carlos Moneta, permanent secretary of Latin American Economic System
(SELA), said in his welcome speech that SELA felt honored to have the
Chinese premier to make an important speech at the Home of Latin
America and the Caribbean.
He said the speech to be made by the premier will contribute to
strengthening and deepening the economic ties between Latin America and
China and between Latin America and Asia as a whole.
He said Latin America and the Caribbean, especially the Latin American
Economic System, are following the reform and opening-up in China.
He said SELA could play an important role in promoting the economic
relations between China and countries in Latin America and the
Caribbean.
The 100-seat hall where Li made the speech was packed to the full.
Among those present were senior Venezuelan government officials,
parliamentarians and celebrities of all works of life.
