Russian forces sent shells and rockets raining onto Grozny Saturday, a
day after President Boris Yeltsin grilled his ministers on why air and
artillery attacks have continued despite his promise to stop the
bombings.
The military was using ``all kinds of artillery and rocket launchers''
to target the center of the rebel Chechen capital, while ground forces
attacked it from the western direction, the Interfax news agency
reported.
The city was covered with smoke from burning buildings and oil
reservoirs located in the industrial district, about 4 kilometers (2.5
miles) from the center. A spokesman for Chechen President Dzhokhar
Dudayev's forces said the reservoirs were bombed from the air Saturday
morning, Interfax reported.
Small groups of fighters who arrived from nearby villages to defend
Grozny were running through empty streets toward Dudayev's palace,
which caught fire in the shelling, it said.
The barren building, still held by the Chechen defenders, was the scene
of the heaviest bombardment Friday. Dudayev has not been seen in the
building or elsewhere for days, although Chechen officials insist that
he is somewhere in Grozny.
Russian legislator Ayvars Lezdinsh, who is now in Grozny, told Interfax
that shells and rockets were exploding at a rate of 15 to 20 a minute.
Both Lezdinsh and pro-Dudayev's fighters said the barrage was likely a
preparation for another ground offensive on the city, Interfax
reported.
According to Chechen officials, Russian forces were using heavy
artillery from about 20 kilometers (12 miles) away to lob rounds into
the city.
Saturday was the eighth day of Russia's bungled assault on Grozny to
end the independence drive by Dudayev. Moscow reportedly suffered
hundreds of dead and lost dozens of armored vehicles after attempting a
head-on storm of the city on New Year's eve.
In Moscow on Friday, Yeltsin all but declared the Chechen war was out
of his control. At a Security Council meeting, Yeltsin demanded to know
why the bombing continued and when a new government would be in place
in Chechnya.
Taken at face value, his comments amounted to a concession that his
orders were not being followed, raising troubling questions about who
is in charge of the month-old operation that has resulted in mass
casualties on both sides, especially among the Chechen civilians.
Yeltsin's stance, however, also could serve to deflect responsibility
for the military fiasco from his beleaguered presidency.
At the meeting, Yeltsin said he was unclear on ``whether the bombing of
Grozny was stopped in accordance with my decision or whether it wasn't.
That was announced to the whole world, and Russia has learned about it,
but there is information the bombing wasn't stopped.''
Looking directly at Defense Minister Pavel Grachev, he said: ``And I
want to hear absolutely precise information from the defense
minister.''
But it was clear there was no intention to stop the fighting
altogether, as Saturday's attacks testified to that.
In a statement released on Friday by the presidential press service,
the Council mentioned unspecified peace efforts, but stressed the
necessity ``to overcome armed resistance, disarm illegal armed units
and ensure favorable conditions for the restoration of law and order on
the Chechen territory.''
Reinforcements continued to pour in on Friday. A division of
paratroopers moved into place near Grozny from northwest, according to
Lezdinsh. A convoy of Russian military tanker trucks also was seen
moving in from the west.
Yeltsin sent tens of thousands of troops into Chechnya, a tiny and
mostly Muslim region of 1.2 million people, on Dec. 11 with the aim of
reasserting Moscow's control setting an example for other
independence-minded regions.
Saturday's assault coincided with the Russian Orthodox Christmas.
Russia's human rights commissioner Sergei Kovalyov urged Yeltsin on
Friday to mark the holiday by calling a cease-fire and organizing peace
talks.
``But Boris Nikolayevich said: `That's too early','' Kovalyov said.
