Portraiture Is Back
When America's 19th-century art critics took it upon themselves to rank
types of art, portraiture ended up at the bottom.
Landscape painting had the depiction of the Romantic sublime and
Manifest Destiny to recommend it. Still life coaxed nature into pretty
arrangements loaded with symbolism. Genre promoted nationalism and
pious sentimentality; history painting maintained its scholarly snob
appeal.
But, as if an association with vanity weren't bad enough in
portraiture, along came photography to challenge its role of recording
the human visage.
Despite a brief, brilliant comeback in the work of John Singer Sargent
during the robber-baron decades and in Thomas Eakins' somber
psychological realism, portraiture's reputation took further beatings
from Cubism and other forms of modernist abstraction. I
ts low point coincided with the triumph of Abstract Expressionism and
Minimalism in the 1950s and '60s. Next thing you knew, social types
were commissioning their likegesses as Day-Glo silk-screens taken from
Polaroids by a fellow in a blond wig.
Relegated to a place beyond the cultural pale, portraits have seemed
social anachronisms, frumpy heirlooms, pictorial equivalents of gold
watches for retiring officialdom.
A portrait at its best, wrote Charles Baudelaire, should be ``a poem
full of space and reverie.'' Where's the poetry in portraiture today?
What has happened to the self reflected in the mirror of art?
A lot. The art world of the 1990s is witnessing a resurgence of
interest in portraiture -- portraiture as diverse as it is full of
contradictions. Portrait commissions are on the increase.
Painters like Aaron Shikler, the dean of American portrait artists, are
coming in from the cold. More and more, Shikler said, he is being
invited to give lectures and teach master classes. ``There's less of a
stigma attached to painting portraits,'' he said. ``There was a period
when it was the lowest of the low, when you were laughed at.''
Part of the revitalization of portraiture is because of the revival of
representation in art, both traditional and post-modern.
``The visual arts are altogether different these days,'' said Alan
Fern, director of the National Portrait Gallery in Washington.
``There's more tolerance, more of an inclination to deal with
figurative art than there was in the '70s. Portraiture has more of a
place in what is happening.''
That place is central because some of the most important trends in art
today are responsible for portraiture's reinvigoration. The
confrontation with identity, an emphasis on human physicality and its
frailties, the politics of multiculturalism, and a continuing obsession
with the mass media are everywhere.
``Portraiture isn't outdated and dead if you can reinvent it,'' said
the New York artist Jonathan Santlofer, who makes what he calls
constructed portraits, combining painting and sculptural elements. ``I
try to link my work with the very disparate history of portrait
painting,'' he said, ``to Greek and Egyptian reliefs, Flemish
portraits, Cubism.'' He would like to portray a group of businessmen in
the style of Rembrandt's ``Nightwatch.''
Portraiture's rehabilitation, however, is perhaps most noteworthy on
the cutting edges of art. Taking many different forms, from
installation art to abstraction, portraiture has produced fierce
debates about formalism and realism, about irony in art, about
politics, about tradition and breaking with conventions.
Next month, the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers, N.Y., is opening
``Looking at Ourselves: The American Portrait,'' an exhibition that
will span 200 years. ``There has been a move in contemporary art from
broad investigations of culture to a search for individuality,'' Philip
Verre, the museum's director, says.
The intense examination of sex, ethnicity, sexuality and class has led
naturally to portraiture and the menage a trois it sets up among
artist, subject and viewer.
Exhibitions: A Calendar Crowded With Faces
This fall, New York gallerygoers could visit shows featuring portraits
by such historical figures as Elaine de Kooning or Pavel Tchelitchev,
and by contemporary artists like Billy Sullivan, John Currin, Cindy
Sherman, Janine Antoni, David Hammons and Hugh Steers, who paints drag
queens, people with AIDS and his own patrician social circle.
Philip Pearlstein will have an exhibition at the Robert Miller gallery
next month. Even Julian Schnabel, until now uncharacteristically
private about his portrait painting, is considering a show on the
subject.
Last spring saw the most influential museum show of portraits in years,
recent work by the English painter Lucian Freud at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, which is also planning a Chuck Close retrospective in
1996. The debut of the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh last summer
refocused attention on Warhol's portraits.
The Museum of Modern Art is counting on a blockbuster with next year's
``Picasso and Portraiture: Representation and Transformation.'' On the
Jewish Museum's schedule is ``Too Jewish,'' an exhibition that will
introduce such variations on portraiture as Dennis Kardon's sculptured
``Jewish Noses'' series.
A number of historical shows -- John Singleton Copley exhibitions next
year in Boston and Washington and at the Metropolitan, for instance --
will apply the social consciousness of contemporary art scholarship to
portraiture's past.
In July, the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, N.Y., will present the
wide-ranging ``Face Value: American Portraits,'' with 19th-century
examples as well as contemporary ones.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
(MORE)
