Braves hurler pitches a masterpiece
Picasso had his paint brush. Beethoven had his piano. Greg Maddux makes
his artistic masterpieces with a baseball.
The Atlanta pitcher allowed the most run-productive batting order in
the sport only two hits here Saturday, hurling the Braves past
Cleveland 3-2 in the opening game of the 91st World Series.
"It's like an artist going out and drawing a painting," Atlanta's
Marquis Grissom said. "He puts everything he has into his game."
Maddux, a right-hander in his 10th major-league season, hurled the
first complete game Series two-hitter since 1971. He struck out four,
surrendered only two unearned runs off teammate's fielding errors and
allowed only four balls past the infield in the game.
"He out-pitched us. That's the bottom line," Cleveland's Jim Thome
said. "You hear this guy is so good but you don't really know until you
face him. He keeps the ball moving around."
"Mad Dog" Maddux, in his first Series start, outlasted Cleveland's Orel
"Bulldog" Hershiser, who was 7-0 in playoff decisions before Saturday's
loss. Maddux struggled in prior playoff games but ended that rap in
style.
"I don't think Greg made a mistake the whole night. It was a
masterpiece," Atlanta pitcher John Smoltz said. "One thing for sure, he
put to rest the tag he can't pitch in the post-season. I don't think he
will ever have to hear that again."
Maddux is 3-0 in playoff starts this year with a 2.32 earned-run
average. He said eliminating Colorado and Cincinnati in the expanded
playoff format has made pitching the Series easier.
"With each series I feel better and more relaxed," Maddux said. "You
have to learn to live and deal with the pressure. I was a mess in
Colorado, better in Cincinnati and even better here."
But Maddux refuses to describe himself with the glorious terms used by
others, even after a formidable performance such as his Series opener.
"It was fun. It felt like a game you play in June or July," Maddux
said. "It was a satisfying win but nothing to pat yourself on the back
about. I'm happy with the way I played. But this is not nearly
finished. We may have won a very small battle but the war is not over
yet."
