Brooks Has Early Lead at Nestle Invitational 
In a tournament expected to be a shootout among golf's foreign stars,
Texan Mark Brooks opened up a two-shot lead over mostly Americans in
the first round of the Nestle Invitational.
Brooks on Thursday shot a 7-under-par 65 on Arnold Palmer's
surprisingly docile Bay Hill Club course that left the vast majority of
the game's leading lights well back.
The tournament made much of the fact that it is only the second
non-major event in 10 years to have all of the top-24 members of the
Sony world rankings in its starting field.
Most of those, of course, are the international stars who have ruled
golf in recent years. However, they weren't a factor -- at least not in
the early going.
In fact, Arnold Palmer, the 65-year-old host pro, beat three of their
proudest members. Palmer shot a 73 while U.S. Open champ Ernie Els of
South Africa was at 74 and two Spaniards, Seve Ballesteros and Masters
title-holder Jose Maria Olazabal, were at 75.
Steve Stricker, Rick Fehr, Billy Andrade and Jesper Parnevik of Sweden,
whose greatest claim to fame was his unsuccessful run at the British
Open last year, shared second at 67.
Zimbabwean veteran Mark McNulty scored two eagles in a 68 that put him
in a tie with John Daly, Fuzzy Zoeller, defending title holder Loren
Roberts, Jim Carter and Fred Couples, making his first start after
missing two tounaments with a cranky back.
``It's a matter of fatigue,'' Couples said. ``I start out feeling as
good as anybody, but after about 4{ hours out there I stiffen up pretty
bad.''
It's entirely possible he could stiffen up even more in Friday's second
round when temperatures are expected to drop, winds pick up and the
chances of rain increase.
``This golf course has many faces,'' Brooks said. ``It can rear up and
get real ugly.''
It did just that to Jack Nicklaus, 55, making one of his rare
appearances in his old rival's tournament. Nicklaus beat only one man
with a 79.
The top three ranked players in the world -- current British Open and
PGA champion Nick Price of Zimbabwe, Greg Norman of Australia and Nick
Faldo of England -- had 71s in the relatively benign conditions.
