Albright: European Rejection Won't Deter U.S. on Iran Embargo With Iran-US
Refusal by European allies to join a U.S. embargo on Iran won't deter
Washington from trying to isolate the regime, the U.S. ambassador to
the United Nations said Wednesday.
The European Union said Tuesday it had decided against joining the
embargo in favor of a ``critical political dialogue'' with Iran.
Other nations, including Turkey, also rejected the embargo, although
Japan said it postponed a dlrs 540 million loan to Iran.
The Clinton administration this week prohibited trade with Iran by U.S.
firms and their subsidiaries abroad in an attempt to stifle Tehran's
alleged sponsorship of international terrorism and its pursuit of
nuclear weaponry.
``We presume that some of the European countries will agree and others
will not,'' U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright said after meeting
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. ``Nevertheless, we are going to keep
pressing our case.''
Albright arrived in the Middle East on Monday and held talks with
Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian leaders. Her discussions with
Mubarak focused on the Iranian embargo, sanctions against Iraq and the
renewal of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
At the news conference Wednesday, Albright said isolating Iran was the
best way to support the Middle East peace process, promote stability in
the region and curb international terrorism.
``We do see them as most extreme,'' she said of Iran. ``We therefore do
believe that taking this kind of action to isolate what Secretary (of
State Warren) Christopher has called an outlaw regime is the
appropriate way to proceed.''
Critics have complained that severing trade and economic ties with Iran
will cost thousands of U.S. jobs. The lack of European support also
will hamper the embargo's effectiveness.
Meanwhile, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said
Wednesday he was ``deeply happy'' about the embargo, predicting it
would strengthen his country's resolve in the face of adversity.
``This new action by the American government will increase the spirit
of work, happiness, effort and production among the revolutionary
people of Iran,'' state-run Iranian radio quoted Khamenei as saying.
