Contains Items on Tim Allen, Nancy Kissinger, Rod Stewart, model 
Tim Allen delivered on his own private Santa clause.
The actor's stepfather asked him to provide a van for a program that
provides meals and transportation for the elderly and the disabled in
this city just outside Detroit.
The star of the TV comedy series ``Home Improvement'' and the movie
``The Santa Clause'' turned over the 1995 Ford Econoline on Tuesday to
the Lighthouse of Oakland County's Caregiver program.
Allen's stepfather, William Bones, is a volunteer driver for the
program.
``I heard they needed a van and I have some contacts with Ford, so I
made a call and they will provide it for the first year and I'll buy it
back and take care of it after that,'' said Allen, who is from the
area. ------
NEW YORK  -- Nancy Kissinger, the wife of former Secretary of State
Henry Kissinger, has gone home from the hospital after 17 days
treatment for an intestinal ailment.
The 60-year-old Mrs. Kissinger was released from New York Hospital on
Tuesday. The hospital gave no details about her ailment. But she has a
history of ulcers. ------
LOS ANGELES  -- Rocker Rod Stewart will ring in the New Year with a
free concert on Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro.
Concertgoers will be asked to bring food to be donated to the poor,
Stewart's publicists said Wednesday.
The New Year's Eve concert is sponsored by Pepsi-Cola, which is
expanding in Brazil. ------
DAKAR, Senegal  -- Model Katoucha Niane has been arrested on drug
charges, but her lawyer says she is innocent.
Niane, 33, was arrested Dec. 21 while driving in Dakar with a friend
and has been held at the city's central prison. News of the incident
was not released until Tuesday, when her lawyer, Bara Diokhane, issued
a public statement proclaiming her innocence.
According to police and Diokhane, the model was a passenger in a car
that was pulled over by drug agents during a Dec. 20-21 sweep in which
18 other people were arrested. A search of the driver's purse turned up
various drug paraphernalia, including a pipe, spoon, needle and
tourniquet.
Diokhane said the driver was a friend of Niane's and was driving the
model to her hotel after dinner. Agents stopped the car after it left a
reputed drug house in Dakar. A search of the house turned up 500 grams
of heroin and about dlrs 60,000 worth of cocaine.
Niane was accused of buying drugs and faces up to two years in prison
if convicted.
Niane has modeled for Yves St. Laurent and Christian Lacroix.
Originally from Guinea, she grew up in Senegal after her family moved
there.
Niane held her first ready-to-wear show last year in Paris and said she
wanted to open a boutique of her designs in Senegal. ------
ST MORITZ, Switzerland  -- The rich and the famous are once again
flocking to Switzerland's ski slopes this holiday season.
As 1995 is ushered in, the country's classiest snow spots are readying
themselves for an influx of stars from the worlds of royalty, show
business, industry and politics.
``St. Moritz from Christmas to New Year is the most cosmopolitan place
in the world,'' enthused resort director Hanspeter Danuser.
The New Year's holiday brings more than 20,000 visitors to
Switzerland's oldest ski resort.
Many eminent guests have already moved into their villas and
apartments, including the wealthy Italian families, Agnelli of Fiat
fame and the fashion designers Gucci.
Regular guests also include the German aristocratic families of
Furstenberg and Bismarck as well as the Karajan family, the German
publishing dynasty Burda and the Swiss publishing family Ringier.
The high-class Swiss resort of Klosters is preparing for its own share
of eminent visitors.
Prince Charles will be coming with his two sons, Princes William and
Harry, resort director Marin Accola said.
The Duchess of York, Sarah ``Fergie'' Ferguson, is also expected at
Klosters with her two daughters, Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie,
according to Accola.
But Fergie, who likes to make her travel plans at the last minute, may
turn up instead in Verbier, said Patrick Messeiller, the resort's
director.
Other celebrities expected in Verbier include the opera singer Barbara
Hendricks, the American pop singer Diana Ross and the French actress
Isabelle Huppert. ------
OMAHA, Neb.  -- A 14-year-old farm boy from Wisconsin won dlrs
500,000 Wednesday in a drawing sponsored by health activist and
multimillionaire Phil Sokolof to draw attention to the nation's new
food labeling requirements.
``I'm going to buy a motorcycle and go to college,'' said Jonathon
Kleman of Stevens Point, Wisconsin.
Sokolof led the fight for passage of a tough labeling law in 1993 that
requires packaged food to bear complete nutritional information.
More than 1.6 million people nationwide entered the Omaha activist's
sweepstakes. They had to read a facsimile label and answer a few
multiple-choice questions about nutrition. The winning entry was
selected in a drawing. ------
LOS ANGELES  -- Actress-comedian Whoopi Goldberg will receive a
humanitarian award in January for her ``Comic Relief'' specials, which
have raised dlrs 25 million for the homeless.
In winning the award from the Friends of the Sheba Medical Center,
Goldberg follows previous recipients Elizabeth Taylor, Michael Douglas,
Liza Minnelli and Shimon Peres, among others. Goldberg will be honored
Jan. 22 at a Beverly Hills awards dinner.
``Whoopi Goldberg exemplifies the kind of spirit on which the Sheba
Medical Center was founded, treating every person equally without
regard to religion or ethnic origin,'' said Diane Glazer, Sheba's
Western states director.
The medical center, located in Israel, is the largest in the Middle
East.
