The same type of alternative medicine that once brought armed police
and agents of the Food and Drug Administration to storm a local clinic
has been judged worthy of scientific study by the nation's leading
research institution.
``This is the culmination of years of work,'' said Leanna Standish, a
naturopathic physician and research director for Bastyr University in
Seattle.
The National Institutes of Health announced Tuesday that Standish and
her colleagues at Bastyr will receive a three-year, $840,000 research
grant to establish a national center for evaluating certain alternative
medical therapies used to treat AIDS and HIV infection.
``This is thrilling,'' Standish said.
Bastyr, founded in 1978, is a non-profit teaching institution with 95
faculty members and 700 students, offering accredited degrees in
naturopathic and botanical medicine, acupuncture, Chinese medicine and
nutrition.
Alternative medical practictioners use non-drug approaches in treatment
and emphasize ``whole-body'' therapies as opposed to targeting specific
diseases.
``This is a vindication of our commitment to do it right,'' said Joe
Pizzorno, a naturopathic physician and president at Bastyr.
``It's ironic that we're still getting hassled for some of the same
approaches,'' said Jonathan Wright, a Kent, Wash., physician who gained
nationwide attention in 1992 after his clinic was raided by police and
FDA officials who claimed his use of vitamins and herbs was illegal.
A federal grand jury failed to return charges against Wright, but the
federal investigation continues.
Wright, a consultant to the Bastyr project, half-jokingly predicted
Bastyr may run afoul of the FDA in carrying out its grant because of
the need for FDA-approved permits to do such research.
``I hope they don't deliver the (permits) with guns and flak jackets,''
he said.
The NIH's new Office of Alternative Medicine selected Bastyr for one of
its first two major research grants. The other was the Minneapolis
Medical Research Foundation for alternative therapies in addiction.
``There was tough competition for these grants,'' said Jim Bryant,
spokesman for the NIH alternative medicine branch. The 30 other
applicants included Harvard, Columbia and UCLA.
``One of the exciting things about this grant is it gives them some
resources to truly do rigorous studies,'' said Dr. Ann Collier,
director of the University of Washington's AIDS Clinical Trials Unit.
Collier is also on the NIH advisory panel to the Bastyr project.
``There are clearly some therapies that need this evaluation,'' she
said.
While many people with AIDS and HIV infection use alternative therapies
to fight the disease, few of these therapies have been subjected to
careful scientific scrutiny for effectiveness and safety.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
``Bastyr really does try to back up everything with good data and
research,'' said Ron Bills, board president for the Seattle Treatment
Education Project, an organization that provides information on
conventional and non-conventional treatment options for people with HIV
and AIDS.
Bills, who has AIDS, takes a regimen of drugs including the relatively
toxic anti-viral drug AZT. But he's convinced that botanical
medications and other therapies received at Bastyr's Immune Clinic have
helped him avoid the kind of liver and kidney toxicity that many AIDS
patients experience.
An example of the naturopathic approach that has worked for him is an
herbal supplement made from milk thistle. Bills said many Native
American cultures used milk thistle to treat liver toxicity from
mushroom poisoning and hepatitis. This, he said, is just one of the
treatments he receives at Bastyr.
``All the treatments are aimed at helping my body deal with all these
drugs I'm taking,'' Bills said. ``Bastyr doesn't take the radical
position that conventional medicine is poison. They look at natural
medicine as complementary to conventional medicine.''
Bastyr's Standish, though elated at winning the federal grant, said she
recognizes that many obstacles remain to successfully carrying out the
research project.
``It can be hard to draw conclusions when dealing with natural
medicines,'' she said.
People often take such therapies in combination with conventional
drugs. Also, many of the clinics taking part in the study may not have
the money to support the kind of clinical data needed to give these
therapies a hard look.
And Wright's concern about gaining FDA approval for the use of
alternative therapies is not without merit, she said.
``I have my concerns,'' Standish said. ``Now, maybe that's changed.''
It's now up to the alternative health care community to make good on
its claims, she said.
