Christopher begins South Africa visit 
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher arrived here late on Friday
for a two-day visit to South Africa dedicated mainly to discussing ways
to prevent conflict in Africa.
Christopher was to meet President Nelson Mandela in Cape Town early on
Saturday before heading for Johannesburg where he will deliver a speech
on US-South African relations at Witwatersrand University in the
afternoon.
He is due to brief the South African government on talks he had on
Friday in Arusha, Tanzania with Tanzanian, Kenyan and Ugandan officials
about the situation in Burundi.
At the meeting, Christopher urged Burundi's neighbours to ease the
sanctions they imposed on Burundi after a military coup there in July
and to take account of the efforts of Burundian leader Major Pierre
Buyoya to restore political institutions suspended after the coup.
Christopher will also try to persuade South Africa to take part in a
future African peace force. He has already secured the agreement in
principle of Mali, Ethiopia and Tanzania. Uganda and Kenya expressed
interest in the project but made no formal commitment.
Mali and Ethiopia have already agreed to provide troops for the force.
In Addis Ababa, Christopher said only "countries with an experience of
democracy and with civilian control of the armed forces" would be
chosen for the proposed 10,000-man force, which would be financed by
developed countries and would intervene to set up safe havens for
civilians in the event of conflict on the continent.
South African deputy foreign minister Aziz Pahad said on Thursday that
Pretoria was interested in such a force but he said South Africa and
other southern African countries had been discussing similar ideas for
at least three years.
Pahad told AFP: "We agree with the principle of African involvement."
But he said "our commitment to an intra-African force is more a problem
of resources."
A State Department official who asked not to be named, told journalists
accompanying Christopher that the talks with Mandela and Vice-President
Thabo Mbeki would also focus on mediation efforts in Angola and in
Rwanda.
While underlining their "close cooperation on international issues",
the official said there was "obviously not a full coincidence of views"
on countries like Libya and Iran which Washington considers to be
supportive of international terrorism.
Washington has expressed concern over the recent rapprochement between
South Africa and Iran and particularly about joint projects for gas
exploitation and oil storage.
Christopher will also emphasise here Washington's desire to see
international sanctions imposed on the Nigerian military regime.
However Christopher has failed to muster much support for this position
during his tour which began Monday in Mali and has taken him
successively to Ethiopia and Tanzania.
