Burma, Nigeria, Iran, Syria, Afghanistan Least Cooperative on Drug
Trafficking
Burma is singled out by the U.S. government as the world's biggest
producer of opium and heroin, and one of the least cooperative
countries in controlling drug trafficking.
Others on the list of uncooperative countries declared by President
Clinton on Wednesday are Iran, Nigeria, Syria, and -- new this year --
Afghanistan.
``The government's ability to suppress Burma's opium and heroin trade
is severely limited by lack of access to and control over the areas in
which most opium is grown and heroin processed,'' said an annual State
Department report.
``This is to some extent a situation the government itself has
created.''
The report said the Rangoon military government has given broad
autonomy to ``well-equipped ethnic armies'' when they stop fighting.
The opium poppy crop has soared in areas the rebels control despite
promises from both rebels and government to reduce it, the report
charged.
It gave figures showing some improvement in Burma as a whole. The
Burmese government reported a drop in poppy cultivation last year to
146,600 hectares (352,000 acres) from 165,800 hectares (398,000 acres)
the year before. But the report said that was due mostly to bad
weather.
Exports were said to go mostly through China and Thailand and to some
extent through India and Bangladesh.
Afghanistan is cited for a fifth consecutive year of increased opium
poppy cultivation, making it second only to Burma.
The report says the lack of an effective central government hindered
both domestic and international efforts to curb opium production.
``It is an essentially lawless country with a well-armed civilian
population,'' the report said, adding that the
Iran-Pakistan-Afghanistan border area is one of the main narcotics
trafficking regions of the world.
Nigeria, Iran and Syria were cited mainly as transit points for
narcotics shipments.
Asian heroin and Latin American cocaine go through Nigeria to the
international market, the report said.
``The government of Nigeria has not addressed adequately corruption
among law enforcement agencies, thereby hindering counter-narcotics
efforts.'' it said.
It added that a beginning had been made last year, however, on a plan
to curb trafficking, and the military government has promised to
develop a drug-control strategy by the middle of 1995.
The report called Iran a major transshipment point, mainly for opium
and morphine base, from the ``Golden Crescent'' -- Burma and Thailand
-- to Turkey. In Turkey, these are refined and then shipped on to
Europe and the United States, it said.
Iran maintains that it has an active anti-drug program and often
executes traffickers. The report noted verification of reports that
Iran has fortified its border with Pakistan to prevent the crossing of
narcotics caravans in the area of Baluchistan, which straddles the
frontier.
The report also speaks of Syria as a major transshipper of drugs. It
said the Bekaa valley in Lebanon, where there is a major contingent of
Syrian troops, is a center of international drug production and
distribution. Cooperation between Syrian and Lebanese authorities has
reduced production, it said.
``But credible reports of the participation of Lebanese and Syrian
officials in the drug trade persisted,'' the report added..
