Grozny: The City That Was 
There is no such city anymore.
Block after block of ruined buildings, hastily dug street graves, young
and old living in cellars, Russian soldiers atop APCs are all that is
left of the once-proud Chechen capital.
There is talk of rebuilding Grozny, but much seems beyond repair.
Home to 400,000 people before the war in Chechnya began three months
ago, Grozny is now most often compared to World War II Stalingrad after
the Nazi siege -- ironically, a symbol of Soviet defenders' heroism.
It looks slightly better, and it still houses an estimated 100,000
people amid its ruins, many of them ethnic Russians, women, children
and the elderly. But there is no running water, gas or electricity,
scarce medical services and food.
``Look at us, how we are fighting for water,'' a middle-aged woman said
with sad laugh as a water truck parked on the single open highway into
Grozny administered a yellowish stream to the survivors.
Further along the road a small and very old woman, Nina Popkova --
``just a grandmother'' to her neighbors -- cried over a row of fresh
graves, mounds of earth on the grass-covered roadside marked with tall
poles.
``This is Sasha. This is Tolya. And this one is Ivan, the grandmother's
son,'' her companion says. ``There are other graves, too, on the other
side of the road. Many people from those houses have died.''
Popkova holds out an old, wrinkled and trembling hand, offering some
food. ``Take it. It's for remembrance. Here is an onion. Will you eat a
tomato? Take it. For remembrance.''
Lucky are those whose graves are marked. Many bodies remain under the
ruble and those found are brought to the cemetery at the edge of town
and thrown into mass graves.
Several such pits have been covered and two open ones reveal a heap of
partly covered bodies of men and women -- a skull split open by
shrapnel, a hand sticking out in some distorted plea.
Thousands of soldiers, Chechen fighters and civilians -- mostly
civilians -- are believed to be have been killed during the weeks of
Russian assault that included massive artillery strikes and air
attacks.
There is no fighting in the city anymore. But Chechens say individual
fighters sneak into the city, harass the Russians, then sneak out. No
men of fighting age -- under 40 -- are to be seen. They have all left,
been arrested or, perhaps, gone into in hiding.
What the Russian military captured it a skeleton of a city. Its center
is destroyed beyond recognition. The buildings are ruble, or walls
punctured by shells and bullets and blackened by fire.
The streets are littered with twisted metal and bricks. Walking them is
at times a risky business; the tails of unexploded mines stick out of
the ground in some side alleys.
Explosions rock the city from time to time as soldiers find and
detonate another mine or shell. Some appear to go off by themselves.
``Get to the bridge! I don't want you to get killed! Yesterday we found
24 unexploded shells in this house. Corpses? There were one or two,''
says an officer cleaning the ruble of one house on the banks of the
Sunzha River.
The presidential palace, once a symbol of Chechnya's independence
drive, stands behind the officer, a disfigured concrete carcass.
But there is life inside some of Grozny's ruins.
In one courtyard women were cooking food on an open fire as men chopped
wood. Others emerged from a cellar where they have been living for
months. Two small sheets of plywood on a tree shielded a pile of
excrement -- an improvised toilet.
A woman walked along the side of the road dressed in an impeccable red
coat and red hat. A drunken man is looking for a bar, of all things.
Roadblocks are everywhere and armored vehicles travel the littered
lanes at high speeds, brushing by survivors pushing their carts. Some
APCs are decorated with grills from Mercedes or Volvos, while others
are flying red Soviet flags.
``It's just a joke. Nothing special,'' an officer says.
Near the center of the city is a relatively intact building -- the
heavily guarded headquarters of Salambek Khadzhiyev, the
Russian-installed head of Chechnya's new ``provisional'' government. An
round of automatic gunfire rings somewhere.
``This is nothing,'' says a soldier guarding the perimeter. ``Now it is
quiet. At night, they open fire at us -- machine guns or
rocket-propelled grenades -- and we shoot back. We don't even know who
we are firing at.''
