Asian stocks mostly lower despite stronger Wall St 
Asian stock markets were mostly lower Thursday on investor caution
despite Wall Street's strength.
Tokyo, Hong Kong, Sydney and Singapore were all weaker but Taipei was
higher after the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite in the United States rose
1.5 percent Wednesday. Seoul was closed for a public holiday.
Japanese shares fell 1.6 percent on fears over the US economy and a
lack of new policy moves by Japan, while trading was thin with
investors distracted by the football World Cup, dealers said.
The market was also pressured by futures-linked technical selling ahead
of a special quotation (SQ) for futures and options contracts on
Friday, they added.
The Nikkei-225 index on the Tokyo Stock Exchange ended the day down
182.22 points at 11,144.84 while the Topix index of all issues on the
market's first section lost 19.16 points at 1,074.52.
"People are a little bit cautious ahead of the SQ on Friday," said
Jean-Pascal Rolandez, strategist at BNP Paribas.
"More than that, there has been a turn around in sentiment on the
electronics sector after the Intel warning. What goes up fastest, comes
down the same," Rolandez said.
Hi-techs were mostly lower, after failing to gain from a late rally by
their counterparts on Wall Street Wednesday, with Rohm down 690 yen at
17,540, Advantest off 20 to 7,820 and Kyocera 20 lower at 9,010.
HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.3 percent lower listless
trade due to investor nervousness about the volatility on Wall Street.
The key Hang Seng index lost 28.64 points to close at 11,119.33 with
dealers saying caution also prevailed ahead of the release of details
on the Tracker Fund unit sales for the third quarter.
Josephine Hui, director of Celestial Asia Securities, said sentiment
was cautious ahead of the release of details of the sales of the
government-owned stocks, Tracker Fund unit, for the third quarter.
"We don't see a clear direction in the market... investors were
sidelined and market turnover was very thin," Hui said.
SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed 0.4 percent down, with
profit-taking in banks outweighing a firmer resources sector.
The benchmark SP/ASX 200 index was 14.3 points down to 3,313.6 and the
All Ordinaries index dipped 12.5 points to 3,264.7.
BNP Paribas Equities director John Bowie Wilson said the positive lead
from Wall Street was ignored.
"It looks like there is a bit of a switch into BHP and Rio. We held up
when the other (markets) didn't and now its our turn to just go a
little bit on the quiet side," he said.
SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed slightly lower as a lack of
leads failed to lift the market despite firmer US stocks.
The Straits Times Index fell 0.4 percent or 6.05 points to end at
1,639.94. In the broader market the All-Singapore Equities index
dropped by 1.03 points to 436.27.
Trading interest remained subdued in the absence of fresh leads,
dealers said.
"It's convenient to blame the football season but I think it's the lack
of action-motivating news. By default, people are sidelined," a dealer
with a local brokerage said.
KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 0.4 percent higher led by
casino operator Genting which rose sharply on foreign orders.
The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange composite index rose 2.82 points to
finish at 753.39.
"Genting was order-driven. There were several foreign orders for the
stock," said an institutional dealer.
Another dealer said there were some trading of banking stocks,
especially top lender Maybank. "The local fund managers seem to be
trying to support the shares," he said.
