KUALA LUMPUR Palestinian President Yasser Arafat will arrive here Tuesday
for a short working visit to seek Malaysia's support for the declaration of
an independent Palestinian state on September 13. Arafat will meet
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad to brief the latter on the latest
development in the Middle East peace process, Bernama news agency reported
Monday. "He (Arafat) is coming to brief on the latest situation as well as
to seek support for the declaration. We hope Malaysia will support the
declaration," Palestine's ambassador to Malaysia Ahmad Al-Farra was quoted
as saying. (Malaysia-Arafat-visit) - - - - BOGOTA -- At least 17 guerrilla
fighters and five soldiers were killed in weekend fighting in Colombia,
military authorities said on Monday. Five hostages held by guerrillas,
including 73-year-old veteran journalist Guillermo Cortes, were rescued by
the army in an operation, in which one rebel was killed in the jungle area
of Medina.  (Colombia-Fight) - - - - WASHINGTON -- The United States said
on Monday that it was ready to help rescue crippled Russian submarine,which
was collided earlier in the Barents Sea. "We through various channels have
made clear to the Russians that any assistance we can offer is available,"
White House spokesman Joe Lockhart told reporters in Los Angles where the
Democrats were going to hold their convention. But he said Washington had
not been asked for any kind of assistance from Russians. President Bill
Clinton was briefed on the accident earlier in the morning and National
Security adviser Sandy Berger communicated the U.S. offer in a previously
scheduled conversation with his Russian counterparts, Lockhart said. But
Washington had not been asked yet for any kind of assistance from
Russians. (US- Russia-Submarine) - - - - UNITED NATIONS -- The
U.N. Security Council Monday endorsed proposals by U.N. Secretary-General
Kofi Annan to establish a large peacekeeping force to monitor the June 18
accord to halt the two-year border conflict between Ethiopia and
Eritrea. The Council members voiced the endorsement in an initial open
debate on the proposal made by Annan on Friday last week. But they stressed
that a cease-fire was not enough as the two Horn of Africa nations must
forge a genuine peace and that planned U.N. force could not remain
indefinitely. Chen Xu, representative of the Chinese Mission to the United
Nations, told the Security Council meeting that Annan's report was clear
and specific on the U.N. Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea, and his proposal
has generated a good framework to promote the peace process between the two
neighboring countries. (U.N.- Peacekeeping-Horn of Africa) - - - - ROME --
Israel cannot agree to continue negotiations with the Palestinians "under
the threat" of a unilateral declaration of a Palestinian state, Israeli
Foreign Minister Shlomo Ben Ami warned here Monday. Any unilateral
Palestinian move would also "almost certainly" be matched by a similar
Israeli move, said Ben Ami after meeting with Italian Prime Minister
Giuliano Amato. Italian Prime Minister Giuliano Amato urged Israel to
pursue talks with the Palestinians despite the failure of the July 11- July
25 Camp David summit. According to a communique from Amato's office, during
their talks the premier stressed that the peace process is in a crucial
phase, and that both sides must find enough courage and willingness to
bring it to a final conclusion. (Rome-Israel FM-No Talks) - - - - LONDON --
A furious row has erupted in Britain over accusations that the government
tried to cover up information showing most bombs dropped in the Kosovo war
missed their targets. The Conservative Party accused ministers of
misleading the public after an investigation showed some bombs achieved a
hit rate of only 2 percent.  "We have been calling for an inquiry for over
a year, which the government have rejected... because they wanted to cover
up the truth," Conservative shadow defence secretary Ian Duncan Smith
said. But Downing Street issued a denial of reports in an attempt to stop
the details being made public. (UK-Kosovo Bombing)
