Probe Points to Algerian Militants; Police Remain on High Alert
Investigators probing a deadly subway bombing said Thursday they found
bits of a shattered blue gas canister and evidence pointed increasingly
to Algerian militants.
Meanwhile, police responded to more than 40 bomb alerts, and detained
hundreds of people in a nationwide manhunt, two days after the bombing
in Paris that took seven lives and injured more than 80.
``France Under High Surveillance,'' read the headline of the
conservative daily Le Figaro. ``A Dirty War in Paris. But Which?''
headlined the center-left daily InfoMatin.
French radio station RTL, citing a police report, said a police
assistant saw two men he described as North African hurriedly leave a
large bag inside a train car, one station before the bomb went off.
RTL said the police assistant heard one of the men say, ``There's going
to be a party tonight at Saint-Michel.''
A leading investigator said he could not confirm the report, but told
The Associated Press that the evidence he has seen so far points to
Algerian Muslim extremists.
``From all I hear and see, I think the fundamentalist lead is advancing
more than the others,'' said Prosecutor Francis Battut. ``It would be
the Armed Islamic Group.''
The extremist network has targeted officials as well as foreigners and
other civilians in Algeria in its battle to topple the military-backed
government and establish a state based on Islamic law.
France, as the former colonial ruler, maintains strong ties with the
Algiers government, which has angered the militants.
The Algerian newspaper La Tribune reported on July 17 that the Armed
Islamic Group had threatened to carry out ``bomb attacks in Paris to
punish the French government,'' according to Paris' Le Monde newspaper.
The group also has been linked to the hijacking of an Air France
jetliner in December. Police roundups before the bombing indicated the
militants were operating in Europe. They are suspected in the
assassination of a moderate Algerian cleric in Paris on July 11.
Authorities said they have received no credible claims of
responsibility for the blast at the Saint-Michel regional RER subway
station in the Latin Quarter of central Paris. It was the first deadly
bombing in Paris in nine years and shocked the city at the height of
the tourist season.
Two dozen people remained hospitalized, hospital officials said. Six of
the seven dead have been identified. All were French except for a
Portuguese woman who lived in a Paris suburb.
Police responded to at least 41 bomb alerts, caused by suspicious
packages or crank phone calls, by Thursday evening.
In Paris, the Lyon and Montparnasse train stations were evacuated after
abandoned packages were reported. A telephoned bomb threat briefly
disrupted Roissy Airport. About 1,500 people were evacuated from the
Louvre museum following a false alert.
No bombs were found, police said.
About 2,000 extra police were deployed nationwide to beef up security,
some called back from vacation, an Interior Ministry spokeswoman said,
requesting customary anonymity.
Law enforcement authorities ``have taken extremely strong precautions
in Paris and the provinces,'' Prime Minister Alain Juppe said.
In Paris, 250 more people were detained for identity checks in the 24
hours ending Thursday morning, and 200 other checks were made in
Marseille overnight Wednesday, police said.
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre went on national TV on Wednesday
evening to ask the public for help to solve the crime. He gave a
special phone number for witnesses and offered a million-franc (dlrs
200,000) reward.
``We're working like ants, talking to witnesses, examining the train
platforms and the cars,'' said Battut.
Battut confirmed that investigators found pieces of a blue gas
canister, the type commonly used by campers, in the wrecked train car.
Lab tests were being conducted to determine the kind of explosive it
contained, he said.
Besides Algerian extremists, the prosecutor has said other suspects
include Bosnian Serb militants; groups linked to the terrorist Carlos,
arrested by French authorities last August; or a deranged individual.
France has taken a tougher line against Serb fighters in the war in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, sending more troops in recent weeks to back up U.N.
peacekeepers.
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic said from Bosnia that ``any link
between Serbs and the bombing is ridiculous and out of the question.''
``Serbs have no terrorist traditions,'' he said, according to the
Bosnian Serb Srna news agency. ``Despite differences with the French
government, Serbs love France.''
Paris was last hit by a wave of bombings in 1986 that left 13 dead,
claimed by an Iranian-backed Lebanese group.
