Governments, World Bank Join To Save Disappearing Sea
Three decades ago, Muynak was a busy fishing port on the Aral Sea. Now
it's 25 miles from the shoreline of the shrinking inland sea.
Since 1960, huge Soviet-era irrigation projects on the Amu Darya river
to the south and the Syr Darya river to the northeast have shriveled
the Aral Sea, then twice the size of Belgium, to no more than
two-thirds its size.
And the Washington-based World Bank, owned by 178 countries, is taking
on the job of overseeing its revival, a task that will cost billions of
dollars and continue well into the 21st century.
The bank has organized the first phase of the program, most of it
planning, and committed loans totaling $200 million for the first three
years.
Some work already has started, a $47 million project to provide clean
water for 3 million to 5 million people in the area, said Peter
Whitford of the bank.
Disease rates have soared from the ecological disaster as winds blew
hundreds of millions of tons of toxic salts and dust that had been
deposited in the now-dry sea bottom by irrigation water laced with
chemicals.
Whitford said the United States, the Aral Basin's five former Soviet
republics and a dozen other countries from Japan to Egypt have
contributed, as well as international organizations including the
European Union of 15 countries.
Only Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, the former Soviet Union's big
cotton-growing areas, border the sea, but nearby Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan
and Turkmenistan are also affected. They lack the money and technical
expertise to carry out the project themselves.
Whitford's first official report said the core of the revival program
is to devise a strategy balancing economic, environmental and social
goals. That has been under way since February.
``It will take a generation,'' said Sandra Postel, director of the
Global Water Policy Project in Cambridge, Mass. She visited the Aral
Basin in March as part of an independent panel appointed by the World
Bank.
One place she saw was Muynak. Its fish have disappeared, and with them
the livelihood of thousands of people. She estimated the town's
population has shrunk from 45,000 to about 15,000.
In another 30 years the Aral Sea, which in reality is a lake _ once the
world's fourth largest _ could become just a series of briny remnants
about one-eighth as large as it was in 1960, a leading U.S. geographer
has predicted.
Professor Philip P. Micklin of Western Michigan University wrote that
the Soviets started a restoration effort under President Mikhail
Gorbachev. The effort collapsed with the Soviet Union.
