Pressure mounts on Mark Taylor by John Yarwood 
For a man with the guillotine hovering perilously over his neck as he
focuses on South Africa, Mark Taylor remains remarkably relaxed.
The Australian captain was still able to smile broadly Tuesday as he
analysed his nightmare run with the bat in the Test series against the
West Indies.
The series ended here Monday with a runaway 10-wicket win for Courtney
Walsh's side, though Australia won the series 3-2.
"I am out of form -- there is no doubt about that," he conceded, with
characteristic candour.
"I am not going to kid myself to say I am hitting them well and I am
just getting out. That would be foolhardy.
"I have to play better. I have to improve."
Taylor faces a problem approaching crisis proportions, compounded by
Australia's imminent departure for South Africa, where the tourists
will rely heavily on solid starts by their opening batsmen -- Taylor,
Matthew Hayden and Matthew Elliott -- against South Africa's menacing
pace.
The Australians fly to South Africa later this week and play in three
Tests which, arguably, will decide the unofficial world Test
championship.
The left-handed Taylor had a Test average of almost 46 before this
summer, yet in nine innings in the five Tests against the West Indies
he has struggled to make 153 runs at a meagre average of 17.
He has only one half century to his name in his past 25 first-class
knocks.
His form in one-day internationals this summer was equally poor, with
eight knocks yielding 143 runs for an average of 17.87.
During a period in which Australia's selectors have been notoriously
unsympathetic to failure, 32-year-old Taylor -- a veteran of 77 Tests
in which he has notched up 14 centuries -- has survived because of his
outstanding captaincy flair.
The Australian psyche is intolerant of consistently non-producing
captains, however special their strategic talents, and Taylor must now
be desperately close to the brink after his recent loss of form.
"A lot of it is in the mind, but I think you can overcome that by
getting other things moving," Taylor said.
"If you work on the physical side, the mental side comes with it."
Taylor said he was looking forward to arriving in South Africa, where
he could escape from the extra pressures of being a captain in a home
series.
"I hope to spend the first three weeks of the tour working on just Mark
Taylor for a while, and hopefully I can turn it around," he said.
Taylor, like many top batsmen before him, lamented that players having
bad trots appear to be dealt a cruel hand by chance.
"It's amazing how when you are out of form, you get good balls, you get
run out -- these things happen," he said.
"And when you are in form, you play and miss -- blokes throw to the
wrong end when they are trying to run you out."
Asked bluntly how many more low scores he could afford before he got
the axe, Taylor replied curtly: "Ask the selectors, mate. They pick the
side, not me."
Taylor can gain little comfort from his last visit to South Africa
three years ago when he was vice-captain to Allan Border for the
three-Test series, which was drawn 1-1.
He was the least successful of Australia's specialist batsmen,
totalling only 97 runs from four innings in two Tests to average 24.25.
He must do considerably better than that this time to guarantee his
retention at the helm for the Ashes tour of England shortly after.
