Countries Agree to Global Accord on Financial Services, Trade 
A tentative agreement was reached Wednesday on a three-year accord to
open up financial services worldwide after Japan said it was ready to
join, trade officials said.
Formal confirmation will come on Friday, an official said.
``All the countries that had reservations about leaving their best
offers on the table have now announced that they will be able to
maintain those offers,'' said the official.
The United States is the only major country to opt out of the accord
although it will be able to benefit from the deal that will make it
easier for banks, insurance companies and securities firms to operate
worldwide.
One trade official, who briefed reporters at the World Trade
Organization on condition of anonymity, said that while the deal had
been arranged behind the scenes, ``it will have to be confirmed on
Friday morning,'' the deadline for agreement.
European Union negotiator Hugo Paeman said even before the meeting that
he was ``quite confident.''
South Korean Ambassador Seung Ho said before negotiators met at the
trade organization Wednesday morning that South Korea and Japan, two
main holdouts, had agreed to join.
In Tokyo, the Japanese Foreign Ministry official responsible for
international financial services refused to confirm the report of the
accord, saying that so far there had been no announcement.
However, Japan's leading financial newspaper, the Nihon Keizai, said in
its afternoon editions that Japan had agreed in principle to join the
short-term accord to open up financial services markets.
It said the move was triggered by a note from President Clinton on
Wednesday in which he promised Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama that
the United States would guarantee a bilateral agreement to extend
reciprocity in the financial services sector, the report said.
``However, without the U.S. participation (in the global accord),
financial services remain a sector that could cause an international
trade dispute in the future,'' Nihon Keizai said.
The accord, to last until the end of 1997, has had a difficult birth.
After 18 months of negotiations, the United States caused an uproar
last month by pulling out a day before negotiations were to end.
The deadline for the deal was extended to Friday while the European
Union worked to formulate a rescue plan.
Japan was vital for any interim accord to succeed without the United
States.
But it wavered over joining, saying an accord without the United States
would give U.S. financial firms a free ride in world markets.
