The New Old West: Tucson Offers Rugged Scenery And Posh Amenities
This must be the set of a Western movie.
As the sun sinks behind desert mountains, the saguaro impart a ghostly
image with their famous armlike cactus branches silhouetted into the
sky.
From the underbrush a yelp erupts, then a chorus of howls as coyotes
stake out evening territory. Quail flutter along the ground. Deer stand
quietly in a dry wash.
You'd expect to bed down for the night by an open fire and see Wyatt
Earp riding through the twilight. After all, the Gunfight at the OK
Corral occurred not far away.
In fact, getting from this hiking trail in Saguaro National Park to a
luxurious hotel in Tucson requires only a half-hour drive.
Once, Tucson was a child of the Old West. In Arizona during the late
1800s bad guys and good guys really did shoot each other full of holes.
In 1882 Wyatt Earp allegedly participated in the brutal killing of one
of his enemies at the Tucson railroad station.
Now, Tucson has matured into a cosmopolitan resort, an easily traversed
region where you can walk in the finest of Southwestern scenery yet
return quickly to town for a five-star dinner.
All-but-perfect winter weather draws visitors from as far away as
Japan. Their annual incomes average $61,000. Thirty golf courses dot
the area. Super-deluxe hotel rooms cost upward of $275 a night. One
employee of the tourist agency specializes in the European market.
Still, to sell itself, Tucson falls back on the aura of the Old West,
the desert, and in particular the beauty of the saguaro, North
America's largest cactus.
``It's the reason for coming to Tucson for some people,'' said Tom
Danton, a ranger at Saguaro National Park. ``It's become the national
symbol for the West and ruggedness. It's been in every Western movie.''
To touch and photograph the saguaro, or any of the desert scenery,
requires little effort.
A few miles east of town, you can drive through the national park's
eastern district, hike down a trail, and find yourself in a wilderness
filled with towering saguaro. Several miles west of town the park's
other district offers similar experience.
Northeast of Tucson puts you at Sabino Canyon, where rock walls
hundreds of feet tall surround streams and waterfalls and a long hiking
trail.
Farther northeast stands Mount Lemmon, up a mountain road where you
trade the desert for pine forests and patches of snow.
Less than an hour south lies Madera Canyon, another mountainous hiking
haven.
Through all this roam wild animals like coyotes, which show up in the
yards of Tucson homes. People who stay at resorts may see javelinas, a
type of wild pig. An occasional mountain lion reveals itself.
``The natural surroundings make Tucson really unique,'' said Frommer's
Arizona, a prominent travel guide.
Weather contributes heavily to the cause. The city boasts of 350 days
of sunshine a year, more, supposedly, than any other city. Rainfall
averages less than an inch a month in winter.
Daytime temperatures in December, January and February are typically
delightful, reaching 65-70 degrees, which allows sunbathing or hiking
in shorts and shirts. Visitors on New Year's Eve take comfortably to
outdoor Jacuzzis to welcome in the New Year.
``Tucson kind of sells itself,'' said Pat Tierney, president of the
Metropolitan Tucson Convention &AMP; Visitors Bureau, who once headed
the tourist bureau in Kansas City.
The saguaro, said Tierney, remains a favorite emblem of the city. The
business cards from his office contain a saguaro logo.
The cactus, frequently seen in movies and advertisements, deserve their
status. They commonly live to 150 years old and reach 40 feet in
height, surviving nippy winter temperatures and 100-degree-plus in the
summer. In the United States they're found only in the environs of
Tucson.
Old Tucson Studios, a movie set where 300 motion picture and television
productions have been shot, many with saguaro in the background, helped
make the cactus famous.
