Yugoslav leaders continue discussion on war crimes bill 
Leaders of Yugoslavia's ruling Serbo-Montenegrin coalition continued
discussion Saturday in a bid to resolve a dispute over cooperation with
the UN war crimes tribunal in The Hague and thus avert punitive US
measures.
A first meeting, called by President Vojislav Kostunica, broke up late
Friday without agreement on the draft legislation which would underpin
cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia.
Beta news agency reported that Yugoslav Prime Minister Dragisa Pesic,
Kostunica's adviser Gradimir Nalic, both federal and Serbian justice
ministers Savo Markovic and Vladan Batic, as well as district
prosecutor Rade Terzic were trying to reach a compromise on details of
the bill.
Kostunica said on Thursday the Yugoslav Parliament could adopt a law on
cooperation with the UN war crimes tribunal in the coming days, raising
the prospect of the United States unblocking millions of dollars of
aid.
Washington decided to freeze 40 million dollars (46 million euros) in
aid to protest at Belgrade's refusal to hand over war crimes suspects
that have been indicted by the UN tribunal in The Hague.
Beta quoted Markovic as saying that the participants had agreed not to
make details of the meeting public before Sunday.
Markovic said that the final draft would be presented to Montenegrin
coalition partners "probably during the day (Saturday)," adding that
they were expected to decide on Monday whether or not to support the
draft in the Yugoslav parliament.
The representatives from Montenegro, which with the larger Serbia makes
up what remains of federal Yugoslavia, have up till now opposed any
proposed law allowing for the extradition of Yugoslav citizens to face
trial in the international court.
If the Montenegrin camp drops its opposition to the extradition plan,
the proposed law could be examined by the federal government on Monday
and put to parliament for adoption on Tuesday or Wednesday, Dragoljub
Micunovic, a Yugoslav parliamentary speaker, said Friday after the
initial meeting.
"Not to adopt this law could have catastrophic consequences," he added.
Also on Friday, US envoy Pierre-Richard Prosper warned Belgrade that
the time was "running out" and that it risked losing US support over
the issue.
Tribunal officials say that about 15 people wanted by the Hague court
live in hiding in Serbia.
