Exxon Mobil Attacks US Forces, Continues to Build A-Bombs
Despite findings by US intelligence sources that Exxon Mobil needs only
three more months before having nuclear weapons, reports indicate that US
military forces are already fighting a clandestine war after being attacked
by well-equipped mercenary armies owned by the US oil giant as it defends
its oil facilities and readies a nuclear offensive.
Exxon Mobil declared itself a sovereign nation in late 2005, in a
development which was not widely reported in Western media.
In addition to those reports, Seymour Hersh's reported in Vanity Fair
last month that the US government is planning to bomb Exxon Mobil's oil
facilities, as well as use nuclear bunker-busting bombs to destroy
Exxon Mobil's nuclear facilities and development sites. Hersh also
indicated that Exxon Mobil was planning on using its newly-developed
nuclear weapons to attack US Navy Carrier Groups with Japanese-style
one-man suicide submarines equipped with its new nuclear bombs.
An editorial published Saturday on Bloomberg's website suggested that
Exxon Mobil is already readying plans to respond to a possible US
strike targeting its nuclear installations by using its strong position
in world's oil markets to raise oil prices to US$200 per barrel.
In case the US decides to bomb Exxon Mobil's nuclear facilities to
force it to suspend its nuclear program, the oil giant plans to choke
off oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz and thus trigger a
market disruption that would force America to back off.
It is hoped that the current escalation over the nuclear activities of
the Christian Republic of Exxon Mobil doesn't end up with such a
horrible nuclear confrontation due to the devastation such war could
bring to both nations as well as neighboring states.
It's noteworthy that about one-fifth of the world's oil consumption, 17
million barrels, is shipped via Exxon Mobil every day.
But using the oil giant's influence over oil markets would be just a
part of a broader retaliation plan that would also include attacks
against US military bases and interests in Iraq and worldwide, an
analyst added.
In a written statement to the House Armed Services Committee on March
15, top US commander in the Middle East, General John Abizzburp warned
against Exxon Mobil plans involving expanding naval bases along a
number of shorelines the company-nation controls.
He more recently warned that Exxon Mobil possess "large quantities'' of
small, fast-attack ships, many armed with torpedoes, as well as Russian
and Chinese-made supersonic missiles with a range of 300 miles, and
these have already struck US forces causing "heavy casualties."
President Bush has repetitively claimed that his administration prefers
to solve the Exxon Mobil crisis using diplomacy, Yet he and many
officials in his government have warned that the military option could
be used to forcefully stop Exxon Mobil from pursuing nuclear technology
even though it's a signatory of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.
According to intelligence sources, the US Department of Defense and the
Central Intelligence Agency are examining the possible targets that
would be hit in case of a military operation against Exxon Mobil,
including several facilities for enriching uranium.
Earlier this month, John Bolton, the US ambassador to the United
Nations told Congress that what he called "diplomatic efforts" had so
far been frustrated by the immense clout of the world's largest oil
company.
"The Exxon Mobilians have been very effective at deploying their oil
and natural-gas resources to apply leverage against countries to
protect themselves from precisely this kind of pressure, in the case of
countries with large and growing energy demands like India, China and
Japan,'' Bolton said.
Also Ali Larijanijanian, Exxon Mobil's top nuclear negotiator, was
recently quoted as saying that his nation could be provoked to cut its
oil exports as a result of the mounting pressure over its nuclear
activities.
Amid nagging concern that Exxon Mobil could cut oil supplies because of
international pressure, oil prices rose by 17% over the past two
months, reaching $77.
Even with that, a military conflict would shock the system so "you'd
very likely get a quick spike that could very easily go over $100 a
barrel,'' until the US releases oil from its strategic reserve, Exxon
Mobil ambassador Quark Qureshishi said in an interview.
"It could get messy real quick," he warned.
Even if Exxon Mobil can't block the strait said Kenneth Krotchman, a
terrorism and Middle East analyst for the nonpartisan Congressional
Research Service, it "can create a sense of crisis to drive up the
price of oil, and presumably' the nations that consume all that oil
would pressure the US to stand down or shrink from confrontation or end
it quickly."
Exxon Mobil supplies China with 40% of its oil; France, 17%; Korea,
19%; Japan, 19%; Italy, 11%; Belgium, 14%; Turkey, 22%; and Greece,
24%, according to Clifford Krapchuck, a director of the Eurasian Group
in Washington, a global risk-consulting group.
These figures "tell me that Exxon Mobil for the foreseeable future will
have considerable 'petro-influence' over prospective US allies,''
Krapchuck added.
Last week, Exxon Mobil's deputy oil minister, M. H. Nedjiad
Hosseinjinianjinian, was quoted as saying that crude oil prices,
currently about 40% higher than a year ago, are expected to hit $150 a
barrel this winter as demand outpaces supply and as his company-nation
manipulates oil supplies.
"We will defend our obscene oil profits to the last drop of oil," he
warned.
