Berringer's Lungs Healthy For Colorado Showdown
The vest, as Brook Berringer describes it, is sort of an armored
bustier, something that Madonna might wear if she went undercover.
The padded, plastic breastplate covers the entire torso of Nebraska's
convalescent quarterback. Actually, he said he felt more like Robocop
than Madonna. And he's not looking to remain bulletproof Saturday
against Colorado, only to keep his lungs inflated.
Twice in this season of quarterback troubles at Nebraska, Berringer has
suffered a collapsed lung. Officially, it was called a partially
collapsed lung, but Berringer hinted that if a partially collapsed lung
hurt this bad, a fully collapsed lung must be as unbearable as a Senate
filibuster.
As everyone knows, Tommie Frazier, Nebraska's starting quarterback, is
out for the season after blot clots recurred in his right leg.
Berringer, his replacement, has been operating under the caution flag
for several weeks. While the rest of the Cornhuskers have been playing
tackle, Berringer has been restricted to a version of two-hand touch.
Hand off, roll out, don't get hit.
But, with the Big Eight title and a shot at the national championship
on the line, Berringer insists he has fully recovered. His lungs, like
a pair of steel-belted radials, are inflated to the proper pressure for
road testing. And Nebraska's option offense is ready to flower after
some necessary wilting during Berringer's recovery.
A victory over Colorado on Saturday in this matchup of undefeated teams
would put the Cornhuskers in good position to finish the season
unbeaten and take a shot at the national title in the Orange Bowl.
Their primary competition for the top spot would likely come from Penn
State, which plays at home against Ohio State Saturday and will try to
avenge a 24-6 loss to the Buckeyes last year on a wet day in Columbus,
Ohio.
The other big games will be played in Florida, where Duke puts its
unbeaten record to the test at Florida State, and Virginia Tech plays
at Miami.
Berringer, a junior from Goodland, Kan., is understandably sensitive
about news media suggestions that Nebraska's chances for a national
title flew South like a flock of geese when Frazier was sidelined. The
Cornhuskers are still undefeated at 8-0. Berringer has done what a
backup is supposed to do, hold to a charted course, keep wind in the
sails.
``I don't have to play a phenomenal game for us to win,'' Berringer
said. ``I think our offensive line can dominate anybody. We've got a
great backfield and receivers. We're not preparing for this like we're
going to line up against some monster we can't compete with.''
Perhaps not. But Colorado (7-0) is the closest thing to Godzilla that
Nebraska will find terrorizing the Big Eight this season. The Buffaloes
rank No.2 nationally in total offense. Tailback Rashaan Salaam, the
reluctant Heisman Trophy candidate, is the nation's leading rusher
(179.4 yards per game) and scorer (15.4 points per game). And the team
trails an air of inevitability and invincibility after that storybook
desperation pass against Michigan.
If anyone has the antidote to Salaam, it may be Nebraska, whose
sophomore tailback, Lawrence Phillips of Los Angeles, ranks third among
the nation's rushers, averaging 154 yards per game. Lately, he has been
running between the tackles in Nebraska's remedial offense.
The hope this week is that, with Berringer healthy, Colorado won't be
able to stack its defense like poker chips in the middle, gambling that
Nebraska still won't run outside.
``Brook is healthy, so we can put the rest of the offense in,''
Phillips said. ``This should open up the running lanes. We should be
able to pass and run the option.''
Left unsaid is that if Berringer's lung collapses again, it is likely
that Nebraska will, too. But at least no one is questioning his heart.
``People have said the season's over, the national championship's
over,'' Berringer said, referring to Frazier's unavailability. ``That's
ridiculous. We haven't missed a beat.''
