Good prospects for Franco-Malaysian ties: French Foreign Minister 
Visiting French Foreign Minister Herve de Charette emphasised Monday
France's policy of strengthening bilateral ties with Malaysia on a
mutual basis of equality.
"I think Franco-Malaysian friendship must be strengthened. There are a
lot of prospects," de Charette said, adding he wanted to see the
development of a new relationship.
France was stressing political and diplomatic relations since it was
"still lacking" in these fields, he told reporters after calling on
International Trade and Industry Minister Rafidah Aziz in Kuala Lumpur
Monday.
De Charette arrived Sunday for a three-day visit, accompanied by his
wife Michele, Marc Laffineur, a member of the French National Assembly,
Jacques Chaumont of the French Senate and three corporate leaders.
He later called on Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad and held a
closed-door session with the premier, after calling on Defence Minister
Syed Hamid Albar and Foreign Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi.
The French Ambassador to Malaysia Edouard Braine said last week that De
Charette would explain to Mahathir France's decision to hold six
nuclear tests in the South Pacific, which were completed recently.
De Charette is scheduled to meet Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim
Tuesday.
De Charette was in Bangkok for the just-concluded Asia-Europe summit
where he underscored French plans to achieve a higher profile in Asia.
During his meeting with Rafidah Monday, they discussed preparations for
the Association of Southeast Asian (ASEAN) Business Forum to be held in
Paris in November.
"We think the main things we can do now are to encourage and support
our companies to cooperate more and more," De Charette said of the
meeting which would be the first of its kind.
ASEAN comprises Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
During the meeting with Syed Hamid, they discussed military cooperation
and technology transfer, Bernama news agency reported.
Syed Hamid also said France appreciated Malaysia's role in ensuring the
success of the peace and redevelopment process in Bosnia.
