News Ltd. launches legal action in fight for superleague 
Media magnate Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. launched legal action
Thursday against Australian rugby league chiefs and six clubs in the
latest round of its battle to launch a Superleague competition.
Murdoch had planned to launch a Superleague, cutting the national
Australian competition from 20 teams to 12 with games broadcast around
the world through his world-wide television interests.
But his proposal was thwarted on Feburary 6 when billionaire Australian
magazine and television owner Kerry Packer persuaded Australian Rugby
League (ARL) clubs to reject his plan.
Packer reminded a meeting of all 20 club chief executives that his Nine
Network held the free-to-air television and cable television rights to
the game until 2000.
The 20 clubs unanimously rejected Murdoch's plan and agreed to sign
loyalty agreements pledging support to the ARL-controlled competitions
for the next five years.
Ken Cowley, chief executive of Murdoch's News Ltd., said in a statement
that it had taken action in the Federal Court against the ARL, the New
South Wales Rugby League (NSWRL) Ltd. and six clubs playing in the
Winfield Cup contest.
He said the court would be asked to determine that agreements between
the ARL, the NSWRL and the clubs were in breach of the regulatory Trade
Practices Act.
Success in the action would allow News Ltd. to continue with its plans
to involve existing clubs in its plans for a Superleague competition,
Cowley said.
The chief of News Ltd., the Australasian arm of News Corp., said he
hoped to deal openly and directly with the administrators of the game,
as he always had done previously.
"But you cannot go through the front door of the Australian Rugby
League if that door is locked by illegal barriers," he added.
"The action begun today by News Ltd. is the key to allowing clubs to
consider the merits of our plans for a Superleague."
Cowley said the ARL was seeking to ban clubs from even talking with
News Ltd. and that "what is best for the game as a whole and the
Winfield Cup clubs has been forgotten."
He said he was confident the court would find the ARL and the NSWRL had
breached trade practices legislation.
"When that happens we will be talking with the clubs about making the
game of rugby league the best of the best," Cowley added.
News Ltd. said the six clubs involved in the action were the Brisbane
Broncos, Canberra Raiders, Canterbury-Bankstown, Cronulla-Sutherland
District, Newcastle Knights and Western Reds.
