Cuban Rejects U.S. Terms for Friendlier Ties 
The most-senior Cuban official to visit Washington in 35 years ruled
out Cuban acceptance of U.S. terms for a more normal relationship
Friday. He said that to do otherwise would be undignified.
The visit by National Assembly President Ricardo Alarcon was the first
by a member of the Cuban hierarchy since Fidel Castro came here in 1959
as a 32-year-old revolutionary less than four months after assuming
power.
Alarcon spent an hour explaining Cuba's foreign and domestic policies
during a National Press Club appearance that demonstrated, albeit
briefly, the country's capacity to stir emotions.
Near the end of his appearance, a woman in the audience named Vilma
Fernandez interrupted Alarcon and challenged him to discuss the fate of
her husband, Pablo Reyes Martinez. She said he was serving an
eight-year prison term because he had tried to work as an independent
journalist. Alarcon said he was not familiar with the case.
She quieted down after a second interruption and appeals for order.
After the luncheon, Fernandez said her husband, a dissident, was found
guilty in April 1992 of disseminating ``enemy propaganda.''
Aside from a small anti-Castro sidewalk demonstration in front of the
building, Alarcon's appearance went smoothly. He contemptuously
dismissed U.S. suggestions that Cuba open up its political system in
return for the lifting of the U.S. embargo.
Cuba would not even agree to ``minor changes'' if they were the result
of pressure ``from the very same nation that has refused to accept our
independence,'' Alarcon said. At another point, he said, ``Cuba is
simply not a U.S. colony.''
He described the Cuban revolution not as an aberration but rather as
another expression of the country's historic yearning to forge its own
destiny free from outside interference.
Alarcon is a former foreign minister who, after long years as a trusted
diplomatic emissary of the revolution, was named president of the
National Assembly two years ago.
He nonetheless has been serving simultaneously as the official most
responsible for dealings with the United States, leading Cuba's
delegation during two rounds of talks on migration issues with U.S.
officials over the past three months.
Normally, Washington is off-limits to high-ranking Cuban officials but
the State Department made an exception when Alarcon asked to be
admitted as part of the Cuban delegation to a Pan American Health
Organization meeting.
Unlike the Organization of American States, from which Cuba has been
excluded for 33 years, the country has remained a member of the
Washington-based PAHO continuously.
As host country for PAHO, an international organization, U.S. officials
have little choice but to grant visa requests from member country
representatives for PAHO activities. Alarcon, who arrived last weekend,
has been required to remain within 25 miles (40 kilometers) of
Washington under terms of his visa.
Some Cuban exile opponents saw the granting of the visa to Alarcon as a
U.S. gesture to Cuba but American officials said no meetings with him
have been held or are planned.
