China Calls for More Attention to Root Causes of Refugee Problem 
China Tuesday called on the international community to pay attention to
the root causes of the refugee problem while strengthening refugee
protection.
Head of the Chinese delegation, Ambassador Qiao Zonghuai, made the
remarks here at the 50th session of the Executive Committee of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
"It should be particularly pointed out that, a few months ago, NATO
bypassed the United Nations and conducted air bombardment over the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a sovereign state, for over two
successive months, which resulted in not only grave losses of property
and civilian lives, but also a heavy exodus of refugees, making the
situation in the Balkan region even more complicated," he said.
"Only when countries stick to the principles like equality in
sovereignty, mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity
of states, non-interference in each other's internal affairs, peaceful
means to settle international disputes among states and other basic
principles of international law, can they reduce and eliminate the
tension and conflicts among countries, and thereby create favorable
conditions to reduce the world refugee population," Qiao pointed out.
The Chinese ambassador also called on the international community to
uphold and implement the principle of "international solidarity and
burden sharing," adding that countries of origin, asylum countries,
resettlement countries and donor countries should set up the
cooperative partnership of mutual trust and mutual understanding based
on that principle.
Reminding the meeting of the fact that it has cost the developing
countries heavily to host and protect the majority of refugees for many
years, Qiao said that the developed countries should provide assistance
actively, avoid the adoption of highly restrictive asylum policies and
shoulder their responsibilities to accept more refugees for
resettlement.
"As a country of asylum, China fulfills its international obligation
and has provided effective protection for 280,000 Indo- Chinese
refugees over the past 20 years with its limited resources, " Qiao told
the meeting.
China has friendly and fruitful cooperation with the UNHCR for a long
time, he said. The Chinese government would like to further strengthen
the cooperation with the UNHCR and other countries and make its own
contributions to solving refugee issues.
The Executive Committee of Geneva-based UNHCR began its current session
on Monday. The meeting on "Strengthening Partnership to Ensure
Protection and Security" will end on October 8.
