Palmer calls it a day at the Masters
Legend Arnold Palmer has decided to stop playing the Masters after
shooting one of the worst rounds he has ever had on the Augusta
National.
"That is it -- tomorrow will be my last competitive round in the
Masters," said the 72-year-old Palmer who carded a first round 89 -- 17
over par.
"I have been thinking about this for some time. It doesn't mean I'm
going to quit playing golf but just have some fun, play a few senior
events and some other selected tournaments.
"Tomorrow will be emotional but I am not sad," he added. "I'm just
going to fade away and this is the time. There is no question Augusta
has meant an awful lot to me over the years, perhaps the one
tournamernt that kick started my career. I love Augusta."
Before the tournament began, it was revealed that several former
champions recieved letters from the Masters committee asking they not
to take part because the course was simply too severe for them.
The letter provoked controversy and uspet several past champions,
including Gay Brewer, who snubbed this year's traditional Wednesday
night former Champions Dinner.
Palmer, announcing his retirement from the Masters, joked "Tomorrow
will be it -- I don't want to get a letter."
Palmer is certain to get a standing ovation as he makes his final
18-hole march around Augusta National on Friday.
He won his first Masters in 1958 and went on to win three others.
Altogether he has played 48 Masters, since 1984 he has failed to make
the cut.
"I love Augusta," said an emotional Palmer and he reflected over past
championships hereF, C "One player asked me why I still got such an
ovation from the crowd even when I am playing so badly and I told him
'Look, I know them by their first name. They are friends,'" he said.
Signs of the famed Arnie's Army of the past were still to be seen here
on Thursday when he drove up the first hole. As he walked to his ball,
he stopped several times to chat to spectators he knew.
After going 12-over par on the front nine, Palmer greeted friends along
the path. Told that his playing now was about people enjoying him and
him enjoying them, a grim-faced Palmer simply nodded and kept walking
to the 10th tee.
Palmer received a standing ovation as he walked off the 18th green.
Palmer nodded, smiled and waved to the crowd, giving several familiar
faces a "thumb's up" sign before he walked into the scoring cabin for
the penultimate time.
