Clinton `Disappointed' 
President Clinton said Friday he was ``disappointed'' by Panama's
refusal to accept Haitian refugees but that his administration is
searching for other temporary homes for the fleeing islanders.
Clinton seemed frustrated, but he refused to analyze Thursday's move by
Panama President Guillermo Endara to back out on a deal to accept
thousands of Haitian refugees, who were to be housed on former U.S.
military bases.
Panama's withdrawal from the plan leaves only three small Caribbean
islands -- Grenada, Antigua and Dominica -- as publicly ready to accept
fleeing Haitians.
The situation leaves U.S. ships with no place to take the more than
10,000 refugees who have been picked up at sea since Monday.
Coast Guard cutters and Navy warships are so overloaded with boat
people that, in some cases, they cannot pick up any more Haitians,
according to the U.S. Embassy in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince.
The Pentagon said 1,859 more boat people were picked up Friday. But 407
asked to be sent home when told they could not seek U.S. asylum by
leaving Haiti.
``My concern right now is to build a network of friends in the
hemisphere who agree that the Haitians are entitled to consideration
... and who want to help us to do it,'' Clinton said at a news
conference before the opening of the annual economic summit here.
About the only sanctuary that Clinton seemed to rule out was the
Haitians' apparent favorite -- southern Florida, where the prospect of
additional Caribbean refugees is a volatile political issue.
Although Clinton refused to dissect the Panamanian action, White House
press secretary Dee Dee Myers said: ``They changed their minds.''
``Obviously, the situation in Panama did not work out as we hoped,''
Myers said. ``We had an agreement with them.''
Clinton fought off several attempts by reporters to pin him down on how
likely he is to order U.S. military intervention to force out Haiti's
rulers, who took power in a coup three years ago, and restore elected
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Clinton repeated that he would not rule out any options, including use
of military force. In the final answer of his 30-minute news
conference, he said: ``I think the conduct of the military leaders (in
Haiti) will have more than anything else to do with what options are
considered when. And their conduct has not been good.''
Earlier in the news conference, Clinton recalled that the generals
leading the coup government had promised to leave.
``They continue to violate the international community's sense of
decency and to violate human rights, and they're in there illegally and
they ought to go,'' Clinton said.
Clinton has been under heavy pressure from the Congressional Black
Caucus to take stronger action against Haiti's rulers. Caucus Chairman
Kweisi Mfume, D-Md., charged Friday that the administration was
conducting a ``policy of anarchy'' with constant shifts that are
causing an ``erosion of American prestige abroad.''
Mfume said air strikes against military targets in Haiti should be
considered, but he was concerned that ``it not be handled as sloppily
as we have handled the refugee problem.''
Clinton did not talk about Haiti in the opening statement at his news
conference on the Naples waterfront, but questions about the troubled
nation dominated his meeting with reporters.
Clinton took pains to defend the recent switch in policy, which denies
the possibility of asylum in the United States to Haitians who flee
their island homeland in boats. While those refugees would be offered
safe havens in other Caribbean nations, they will eventually be
returned to Haiti, the White House has said.
``There is no internationally recognized human right to go to a
particular place and to have a particular response,'' Clinton said.
Haitians can currently apply for U.S. asylum by going to a consular
center in Haiti, and Clinton said the United States has stepped up that
effort.
``And we know that people are able to get to those processing
centers,'' he said.
But given the increase in violence in Haiti, Clinton said, ``There is a
limit to how much the United States or anybody else can do.''
