Hot Names, Hot Books: $4.5 Million Deals Like Gingrich's Don'
If you want a multimillion-dollar advance from a big publishing house,
like the one House Speaker Newt Gingrich negotiated and then gave up,
you had best be:
(a) Tom Clancy, Mary Higgins Clark, Danielle Steele or some other
bestselling author with a track record.
(b) An otherwise famous person at the peak of notoriety.
A hot author or a hot name is akin to a hot athlete in the free-agent
market, says Wendy Nicholson, vice president of Simon &AMP; Schuster
publishing house in New York.
``What you find is more than one publisher bidding for a book, and that
of course drives up the price,'' she said.
Gingrich's deal, which initially called for a $4.5 million advance,
raised eyebrows in the political world. It also drew attention to the
publishing world, where million-dollar advances are rare but not
unheard of.
Former President Ronald Reagan reportedly got $7 million for his
memoirs, and
Army Gens. Norman Schwarzkopf and Colin Powell drew $6 million apiece
for their tomes. Powell's has not yet been published.
An advance represents a gamble by a publisher on sales of the book.
Technically, it's just a prepayment of royalties, the percentage from
sales that authors get.
In Gingrich's case, for instance, his book would need to generate at
least $30 million in revenues to ``repay'' the advance if the royalty
rate was 15 percent of sales. That means that if the book costs less
than $30 a copy, more than a million must be sold.
But authors are rarely required to repay the advance if a book doesn't
sell up to its pre-publication expectations.
In Reagan's case, for one, the advance didn't pay off. The former
president's ``An American Life'' sold only about 200,000 copies,
carrying on a generally lackluster tradition for presidential memoirs.
Republican Gingrich's advance was criticized by Democratic foes in
Congress and others who questioned its size and whether Gingrich had a
conflict of interest in accepting it from the HarperCollins publishing
house.
Much of the criticism focused on a meeting that Gingrich had with media
mogul Rupert Murdoch before signing the deal. Murdoch's holdings
include HarperCollins. He is expected to have dealings with the federal
government in the next year, particularly over his broadcast
properties.
Bowing somewhat to the criticism, Gingrich agreed to forgo the advance
in favor of simply taking royalties later. As a result, he will begin
receiving payments when the first book sells. And, of course, all the
pre-publication publicity is not likely to hurt book sales.
If the book hits it big, Gingrich will be in varied company.
William Bennett, a member of Reagan's Cabinet, didn't get the same
advance that his former boss did; publishing sources say Bennett's was
well under $1 million. But his ``Book of Virtues'' was far more popular
than Reagan's book, selling more than a million copies.
As impressive as was Bennett's ``Virtues,'' the lack of same apparently
can also pay off.
In 1992, Warner Books ordered an initial printing of 29,000 for a
first-time romance novel by an obscure Iowa college professer, Robert
James Waller. Waller had knocked off ``Bridges of Madison County,'' a
story about a tryst in rural Iowa, in 14 days. Warner won't say whether
it gave Waller an advance, but industry sources say it's unlikely that
he received one as a first-time author.
Through the end of 1994, Bridges had sold 7 million copies, been
translated into 23 languages and been transformed into a film starring
Clint Eastwood and Meryl Streep. So strong was the book's power that a
parody sold 100,000 copies.
Even if Waller didn't get a big advance for his ``Bridges'' (although
he probably will receive hefty advances for subsequent works), he did
well. Industry sources say that royalties of 10 percent to 15 percent
are standard, meaning that the professor probably pocketed almost $2
million for his 171-page work, even before the Hollywood money started
coming in.
``The advances run all over the board,'' said Nicholson of Simon &AMP;
Schuster. ``But the royalty figures are pretty standard at between 10
percent and 15 percent, generally on a sliding scale as book sales
rise.''
Political books, as Reagan's experience attests, are not considered hot
properties in the publishing business. But Hillary Rodham Clinton might
want to take heed: Nicholson notes that former first lady Barbara Bush
landed on the No. 1 position on the bestseller list with her memoir.
``Generally,'' she said, ``president's wives sell better than the
ex-presidents.''
