ISLAMABAD
Islamic clerics of Afghanistan, in a resolution adopted on Thursday,
asked Osama bin Laden to leave the country of his own accord, AFP
reported, quoting a Taliban official.
----
TOKYO -- Japan's Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi may visit the U.S. as
early as Thursday over the deadly terrorist attacks in the U.S. last
week, Kyodo News reported.
Koizumi may leave Japan on Thursday afternoon, Kyodo reported, quoting
government sources.
----
MANILA -- Police intelligence officer Senior Supt. Rodolfo Mendoza
disclosed on Thursday that Osama bin Laden still maintains his network
in the Philippines.
Bin Laden's network, which took roots in the early 1990s, remains
intact contrary to some reports, the ABS-CBN news channel quoted
Mendoza as saying.
----
ISLAMABAD -- Spokesman for the Afghan opposition Northern Alliance
Mohammad Habil on Thursday said in Panjsher, the main stronghold of the
opposition, that Islamic clerics from their side have declared
Saudi-born Osama bin Laden as "a terrorist," according to a report by
the Afghan Islamic Press (AIP).
"The clerics' meeting held by Taliban is not important. Absolutely the
final decision will be made as Taliban's desire," he added.
----
MANILA -- Unidentified gunmen attacked two Japanese men in the central
Philippine city of Cebu Thursday, killing one and wounding the other.
Masayuki Kuwabara was killed and Yushiyaki Mewa was in critical
condition at a hospital after both men were shot shortly before noon in
front of a mall on the outskirts of Cebu, the Philippine Daily Inquirer
online news quoted city homicide Chief Inspector Doroteo Mantos as
saying.
----
BANGKOK -- Security and safety measures have been beefed up at the Ubon
Rachathani Airport in Thailand's Northeast following a bomb threat at
the Bangkok International Airport.
Vinij Jinathong, a senior official of the domestic airport in Ubon
Ratchathani province, was quoted as saying late last night that he had
instructed airport staff to stricter check up both in- bound and
out-bound passengers, particularly those from countries in the Middle
East.
----
NEW DELHI -- India dismissed on Wednesday as "totally incorrect " a
newspaper report that it had identified three air bases as part of its
offer for operational support to the United States to deal with those
behind terrorist strikes last week.
"Neither have any bases been offered nor indeed access to any asked
for," a spokesperson of the External Affairs Ministry told the media
here.
----
ISLAMABAD -- Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf said on Wednesday
that the nation has to make most important decisions of its life at the
serious time following the terrorists attacks in the United States last
week.
"If we take timely and appropriate decisions, these could bring
laurels, while on the contrary, incorrect decisions could lead to
disastrous consequences," he said.
