Chang Powers Into Semis 
Michael Chang has always been fast. Now he is also stronger and fitter.
Those attributes on Tuesday helped lift him into the semifinals of the
Australian Open -- the first time he has progressed so far at a Grand
Slam since the 1992 U.S. Open.
Chang, 22, the fifth seed, was in a buoyant mood after his 7-6 (9-7),
7-5, 6-3 quarterfinal win over Andrei Medvedev of Ukraine on a
sun-drenched center court.
``I feel like I'm in pretty good shape. I feel very good mentally and
physically,'' said Chang, despite receiving courtside treatment for a
leg problem that he later claimed was not serious.
The winner of the 1989 French Open as a raw 17-year-old, Chang has in
recent years worked hard to boost his strength as the power-hitters
moved in and took control of the men's game.
``I have gotten a lot stronger. I have filled out,'' said Chang, who
has changed his practice routine accordingly.
``I spend a little less time on court,'' he said. ``Fitness and
everything has become so much a part of tennis. It's no longer just
hitting the ball.
``The past few years you've had to deal with very much the power factor
of tennis, people being able to generate a lot of power off their
serve, off the ground.''
Chang was coy about the exact nature of the leg problem.
``It's nothing too serious,'' he said.
``If it was something serious I would have taken an injury timeout. It
was not a cramp, just a little tightness. Let's leave it at that, Jim
(Courier) and Pete (Sampras) read papers.''
Chang next faces either Courier or Sampras in the semis.
It was a match of incidents. Medvedev, the 13th seed, fell heavily
during the first set, hurting his left wrist. He was treated several
times at courtside.
Chang is noted for his politeness, but that did not stop him from
testing for any weaknesses in Medvedev's suspect wrist.
``I was testing him a little bit out there,'' said the American,
playing in only his third Australian Open.
``I was seeing if any particular shots hurt him, if he had trouble
hitting forehands or backhands. He didn't have trouble hitting
anything.''
Chang won a seesawing struggle. After being up 3-0 in the first set he
saved a set point in the tiebreaker and was up 3-0 in the second only
to fall behind 3-5.
But the gritty right-hander then reeled off a string nine straight
games to be up 5-0 in the third, only to see Medvedev fight back.
``It was a very awkward match, a very up-and-down match,'' said Chang.
``There were a lot of crazy things happening out there.''
Chang wore a handkerchief tied around his neck and spent much time at
changeovers cooling himself with a wet towel.
``You have to take certain precautions like wearing a hat, making sure
there's an umbrella there and just trying to stay out of the sun,'' he
said of the hot conditions.
``That's particularly important here. There have been quite a few
people who have lost matches because of heat exhaustion, or gotten
tired because of the heat.''
