Clinton earmarks 50 million dollars for Bosnia force 
US President Bill Clinton has notified Congress he intends to authorize
up to 50 million dollars in in-kind support for the new Rapid Reaction
Force in Bosnia, a White House official said Thursday.
That sum -- the maximum a US president may authorize under the Foreign
Assistance Act without congressional approval -- includes 12 million
dollars for air- and sea-lifts and three million dollars in equipment
announced by White House spokesman Michael McCurry earlier Thursday.
The Clinton administration is working out allocation of the remaining
35 million dollars in in-kind support with US allies in Europe,
according to the White House official, who asked that his name not be
used.
Washington will also consider sending another 10 million dollars in
intelligence equipment and close air support, and it may pay up to 35
million dollars in cash to support 2,000 Rapid Reaction Force troops,
he said.
"Our main premise is that voluntary contributions should be the primary
means of financing the Rapid Reaction Force," set up by Britain and
France, with participation by the Netherlands and Denmark, the official
said.
The European allies have requested intelligence, navigation,
communications, and refuelling equipment as well as small arms and
night-vision goggles, he said. US contributions will comprise surplus
equipment not earmarked for a military unit, he added.
"We have ready reserve force ships ready to go to England," the
official said. "The Pentagon is proceeding with these kinds of
contributions."
One US ship, the Cape Race, has already set sail for Britain from
Norfolk, Virgina, and another, the Cape Diamond, will leave in July
from Jacksonville, Florida, he said.
Clinton has promised to do everything in his power to assure US
financial backing for the French- and British-led force, but the
Republican majority in Congress has opposed any US funding.
In Bonn, a German cabinet meeting decided Monday to provide up to 14
Tornado jet fighters -- to be based in northern Italy -- for the Rapid
Reaction Force as well as transport planes and medical units,
mobilising 1,500 men to underpin UN operations in Bosnia.
German legislators were to vote Friday on whether to approve the
decision. A majority was expected to support it.
