India says Bush's new climate plan cannot be thrust on poor nations
There was sharp reaction in India on Friday to President George W. Bush's
alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, which green lobby groups blasted as a
"hollow attempt" to shift responsibility for cutting greenhouse gas
emissions onto developing nations.
Unveiling his new plan Thursday, Bush said Kyoto had unfairly exempted
large developing nations like India and China, while his scheme would
give such countries a "yardstick" for progress against pollution.
An Indian government spokeswoman said New Delhi would not be pushed
into any obligation.
"Whatever action we have to take we will take it voluntarily," foreign
ministry spokeswoman Nirupama Rao told AFP.
While the government was still studying the implications of Bush's
plan, it remained opposed to any commitments being thrust on developing
nations by the industrialised world, Rao said.
Another government official said India had already agreed to
non-binding agreements to reduce the level of greenhouse gas.
"Our view is that developed countries have not taken the lead so it
would be inappropriate for them to ask developing nations to take up
binding commitments," said the official, who declined to be identified.
He said India's emissions were about four percent of the total global
level even though it had 16 percent of the world's population.
"With such a low per capita emission level, we find it premature for
anybody to ask us to take up a binding commitment. There cannot be
comparison of apples and oranges."
Neelam Singh, of the Centre for Science and Environment lobby group,
argued Bush's plan would continue to protect US corporate polluters.
"Bush can attack India and China all he likes. But there is no getting
away from the fact that the United States, which is highly
industrialised, is also one of the highest emitters of carbon dioxide,"
said Singh.
"Bush's plan is just a hollow attempt to transfer US responsibility to
cut high greenhouse gas emission levels to developing nations. Bush
should stop protecting US business interests and corporate polluters."
India has long argued it has no need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
because its carbon dioxide output is lower than many developed
countries.
"Numerous studies have pointed out that from the 1950s to the present,
developing countries have accounted for only a quarter of the
greenhouse gases that are causing the atmosphere to warm... Rich
countries have pumped out the remaining 75 percent," Singh said.
In his speech, Bush said it would be "irresponsible" to absolve
developing nations like China and India from shouldering the shared
obligation to reduce emissions.
His plan aims to slow emissions growth by reducing "greenhouse gas
intensity" -- the ratio of emissions to economic output -- by a target
of 18 percent over 10 years.
The blueprint aims to cut power-plant emissions of three of the worst
pollutants, nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and mercury -- but not
carbon dioxide -- by about 70 percent.
"Bush still does not talk about reducing carbon dioxide emissions. His
plan is hardly an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol," said Singh.
The Indian government official said committing to an alternative to
Kyoto was something only Indian Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee
could decide.
But he said such a move would mean opting out of discussions under the
UN framework convention on climate change in which India has been
participating.
"Cooperation under the United Nations convention should be possible
with all parties," he added.
Bush sparked a worldwide uproar shortly after taking office last year
when he repudiated the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which requires wealthy
nations to cut to 1990 levels the emissions of greenhouse gases blamed
for global warming, because he said it was likely to cost millions of
US jobs.
