Clinton on the attack after poll boost by Christian Chaise 
President Bill Clinton's new toughness with the Republicans seems an
outgrowth of his rebounding popularity in the last month, even as many
viewed him as a spent force.
Clinton stood firm Friday against Republican congressional leaders over
federal budget legislation, which could prompt him to use his veto for
the first time.
Passed Thursday by the House of Representatives, the legislation aims
to cut federal spending by 16.4 billion dollars during the current
year.
Clinton reiterated Friday that while he shared Republican zeal for
reducing the federal budget deficit, he rejected cuts targeting
education and the environment.
Clinton brandished the threat of a veto again Friday, warning
Republicans he would oppose efforts to rescind key provisions of his
anti-crime bill -- which impose a five-day waiting period on gun
purchases and ban possession and sale of 19 types of semi-automatic
weapons.
Clinton's new combativeness contrasts with the conciliatory stance he
adopted toward the new Republican congress soon after the GOP sweep in
the mid-term November 1994 elections.
While his approval ratings hovered at an all-time low, the president
stressed what he and the Republicans shared, emphasizing his support
for some of their proposals -- notably tax cuts.
But Clinton changed his tactics in early April, stressing since then
the differences between himself and the Republicans.
Opinion polls, meanwhile, show support for the GOP diminishing as
Americans grasp the extent and impact of their proposed budget cuts on
popular programs.
The Republicans won majorities in both houses of Congress on a platform
that emphasized reducing the scope and spending of federal programs,
built by Democrats over 60 years.
Legislation passed Thursday includes a draconian plan that would
balance the budget over seven years by slashing social programs, some
of them viewed as sacrosanct.
Those include Medicare, which subsidizes medical care for 37 million
retired Americans.
A poll published Tuesday showed 60 percent of Americans opposed to the
House plan.
At the same time, Clinton's own popularity rating rocketed upwards,
notably in the wake of the Oklahoma City bombing that killed 167 people
a month ago.
Public opinion surveys suggest that Clinton performed almost flawlessly
in the wake of the tragedy, which seems to have given him a more
"presidential" image.
The most recent poll showed the president's approval rating at around
56 percent -- 10 points higher than it was a month ago and its highest
level in a year.
Clinton, moreover, has also taken popular positions that the
Republicans cannot oppose, such as the imposition of trade sanctions
against Japan.
Meeting Friday with more than a dozen police union officials, Clinton
attacked Republicans in the name of defending law-enforcement
officials, a favorite Republican theme.
A powerful right-wing pressure group opposed to any limits on gun sales
and ownership, the National Rifle Association, recently attacked
law-enforcement agents, calling them "Nazis" and "jack-booted thugs."
Whether Clinton's recent rebound will last remains to be seen, as
Whitewater investigations -- touching on the financial dealings of
Clinton and his wife while he was governor of Arkansas -- continue with
questioning of one of Clinton's closest advisers, Bruce Lindsey.
