Sri Lanka probes minister's brush with death 
Sri Lanka Sunday began a probe into a crash landing in Tamil rebel
territory by an air force helicopter carrying a high profile minister
and the country's military top brass, officials said.
A court of inquiry will look into the causes of the emergency landing
in an area of the island's north riddled by guerrillas of the
separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), officials said.
Energy minister Anuruddha Ratwatte said he had a "close shave" after
the Bell 412 helicopter landed at a farm and he had to walk five
kilometres (three miles) to safety.
Ratwatte, who is also junior defence minister, said instruments in the
helicopter malfunctioned while it was flying to the town of Weli Oya in
the northeast and the pilot ditched when the aircraft ran out of fuel.
"We had a close shave," Ratwatte told local reporters after reaching
Weli Oya, 300 kilometres (187 miles) northeast of here.
"We landed in Tiger territory in the Wanni (jungles)."
However, officials said they will also focus on other issues, such as
if the pilots were disoriented.
The Sri Lankan air force has a chequered flying record, losing seven
aircraft between April last year and January this year. A total of 280
passengers and crew were killed in the crashes, some of which were
blamed on Tiger attacks.
As Ratwatte and his entourage, which included army chief Rohan
Daluwatte, police Inspector-General W. B. Rajaguru and top military
field commander Asoka Jayewardene were rescued.
The military said Tiger rebels blew up the crippled helicopter.
"We heard two explosions shortly after we started walking towards the
army defence lines," said a junior officer who accompanied the
minister.
Officials here earlier believed the army destroyed the helicopter to
prevent it from falling into the hands of the guerrillas, who are known
to possess micro-light aircraft but have not used them in attacks.
Vast areas of the island's northern region are either controlled by the
LTTE or regarded as no-man's land, where security forces nor rebels are
physically present.
"We took all the precautions possible and used our intelligence to get
to safety," Ratwatte said.
"We learnt many things."
A defence ministry statement said President Chandrika Kumaratunga, who
is also the defence minister, organised the rescue operations using
ground and air units of the security forces.
After the rescue, Ratwatte proceeded to his original destination to
open a school and a hospital in the remote district of Weli Oya.
Ratwatte is the key figure behind the government's drive against the
LTTE which is fighting for independence in the island's northern and
eastern regions.
As Ratwatte's helicopter went missing, security authorities prepared
for a major search fearing that his aircraft may have crashed in
territory controlled by the Tamil Tiger rebels in the island's north.
The separatist Tamil Tiger guerrillas are known to have attacked
low-flying aircraft in the region, officials said.
