Simtek go into receivership 
British Formula One racing team Simtek, who missed last weekend's
Canadian Grand Prix because of financial problems, have gone into
receivership.
But receivers say they are working to sell British Formula One motor
racing team Simtek's assets in time to have them back on the track for
the French Grand Prix early next month.
Simtek blamed sponsorship promised by various organisations over the
last few months that they said had not materialised.
Lindsay Denney of accountancy firm Touche Ross, which has taken over
the operations of the team, said late Wednesday:
"With the French Grand Prix the next race on the calendar, some three
weeks away, there is not much time to try and get the show back on the
road.
"However, the cars have already proved themselves capable of doing
well, providing the team has the stability of sufficient financial
resource to continue the development work.
"The race team mechanics have a high reputation and it is hoped that
those who control motor racing will encourage and support the purchase
of the assets and goodwill from the receivers, thus enabling the name
Simtek to live on," he added.
The receivers said Simtek had considerable debts to suppliers and
investors.
Simtek only entered Formula One last year but their debut season was
marred by tragedy when Roland Ratzenberger died during qualifying for
the San Marino Grand Prix.
Owner Nick Wirth kept the team going, competing in all 16 races and
gaining two top 10 finishes. With the highly-regarded Jos Verstappen
among the drivers' line-up, they were hoping for better things this
season.
But Wirth warned on the eve of the Monaco Grand Prix that the team
would not be able to compete in Montreal last weekend unless they
received a major cash infusion.
Despite Wirth's optimism, that has not been forthcoming. Simtek now
risk becoming the third team to be lost to Formula One this year
following the demise of Lotus -- although the name lives on with
Pacific -- and Larrousse.
