Vice-Premier Zhu on Reform of State-owned Enterprises 
China is striving to lead most of its loss-making enterprises out of
their present plight in three years, Vice-Premier Zhu Rongji said today
at a seminar on China's economic development prospects in the 21st
century.
The focus of China's present economic restructuring is the reform of
the state-owned enterprises, Zhu said at the seminar sponsored by the
World Bank.
With the adoption of the principle of parallel development of various
economic sectors with the public ownership as the mainstay after the
launching of the reform and opening-up, the non-public sector has
gained rapid development and seen an increasingly bigger proportion in
the national economy without prejudicing the mainstay status of the
public sector in the national economy, he said.
The public sector includes not only the state-owned enterprises and the
collective economy, but also the mixed economy, such as the state-owned
and collectively-owned elements in the share-holding companies.
The mainstay status of the state-owned sector is mainly reflected in
the ability to control the national economy, rather than the simple
proportion. "This new theoretic breakthrough will surely bring about
breakthroughs in a number of major aspects of the reforms of these
enterprises," he noted.
After years of reforms, China has formed a thought about the reform and
development of the state-owned enterprises and identified a number of
appropriate measures, Zhu said.
What is urgent now is to set up a new investment system in which the
roles of the government and the enterprises are separated, reform and
improve the financial system to make it modern, establish and improve a
set of social security system, Zhu said.
The reform of the financial system is of great significance to the
building of a socialist market economy in China and the reform of the
state-owned enterprises, he said. Major steps have been taken in this
field over recent years.
China has strengthened the functions of the central bank, separated
policy-based funding from commercial loans, developed markets in
securities, foreign exchange and inter-bank borrowing, introduced
single exchange rates and made the country's currency of RMB
convertible under the current accounts.
To step up the reform of the financial systems, China will strengthen
the currency regulation function of the central bank and the financial
supervisory systems and promote the commercialization of state-owned
banks, Zhu said.
China will also improve the capital structure and quality of the
commercial banks, vigorously but steadily develop and regulate the
financial market, improve and enact financial laws and regulations,
learn modern financial management expertise to improve the management,
he added.
