The U.S. Embassy on Friday accused France's interior minister of lying
about events preceding this week's charges of spying by American
diplomats. As other French officials were trying to smooth over the rift
between allies, Interior Minister Charles Pasqua had rekindled tensions by
suggesting leaks about the case were from ``the American side.'' The leaks
enabled the respected newspaper Le Monde to reveal Wednesday that France
had accused five Americans -- four of them diplomats -- of conducting
political and economic spying for the CIA. France asked Washington to
withdraw them from the country. MOZDOK, Russia -- The new Moscow-designated
prime minister of Chechnya Friday promised free elections for the breakaway
republic and a referendum on Chechen sovereignty if rebel leader Dzhokhar
Dudayev gives up power. ``We will build peace, hold free elections and
bring about voluntary disarmament -- but Dudayev must leave
power,''Solambek Khadjiev, a former Soviet chemical industry minister, said
at Russian military headquarters in Mozdok. An international human rights
group in Moscow condemned Russian forces Friday for ``gross abuses'' in
Chechnya and said civilian suffering is spreading. SARAJEVO,
Bosnia-Herzegovina -- Combat spread to northern Bosnia on Friday in the
absence of any momentum toward restarting peace talks. Despite visits by
European diplomats and the top U.N. official for former Yugoslavia, Yasushi
Akashi, officials in the Serbian capital Belgrade made clear they would not
go for a new international initiative. Mediators were to get Serbia's
president, Slobodan Milosevic, to recognize four former Yugoslav republics,
including Croatia and Bosnia, as a condition for easing economic
sanctions. PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- The second-in-command of the U.S.-led
multinational force in Haiti on Friday said he warned two powerful
right-wing foes of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to stop scheming
against Haiti's government. Brig. Gen. James C. Hill told The Associated
Press that he summoned former Port-au-Prince police chief and mayor Franck
Romain to Camp Democracy, the U.S. military headquarters here, on
Feb. 2. ``I warned him,'' said Hill. ``I told Romain that he was conducting
actions detrimental to a multinational force. I told him to stop. ... I
said that if he did not I would take further action and arrest him.''
BRUSSELS, Belgium -- The biggest names in the information industry
presented a revolutionary vision of the future Friday and appealed to the
world's seven richest nations for help in making it happen. But Jacques
Santer, the chief executive of the 15-nation European Union, quickly was
put on the defensive at the G-7 meeting. ``Finger-pointing will not work in
this context -- every country has some skeletons in its cupboard -- some
larger than others,'' he said. Europe may have its share of monopolies, but
the United States also has its controversies, with Microsoft, the software
giant, accused in an antitrust case.
