Problems of Seamless EU Tough to Solve; Expansion Could Take Years 
Continued passport checks at airports and lack of police cooperation,
problems that hampered the first weeks of a `borderless' Europe, will
take months to solve, officials said Friday.
And expanding the visa-free zone that now links seven nations could
even take years.
Austria, which became the 10th nation to sign the Schengen treaty
Friday, said it will take at least two years before it will be able to
cut all passport controls with other signatory nations.
``Two years really is not a long time,'' said Austria's Interior
Minister Caspar Einem, illustrating how tough it has been to meet the
great expectations of setting up a borderless 15-nation EU where people
can travel unimpeded by passport controls and police can work across
borders.
Italy and Greece, which are already members but have yet to abolish
controls, cited legal objections which could also take months to solve
before they can scrap controls.
The Netherlands will even reintroduce full passport controls at the
international airport of Schiphol on Monday, because current
infrastructure cannot sufficiently separate so-called Schengen from
non-Schengen passengers.
It will be well into next year before the problem is solved, said
Deputy Foreign Minister Michiel Patijn.
And a border problem with France, which has barred German and Belgian
police from chasing criminals on French territory, despite promises to
the contrary, could take two more months before being solved.
But perhaps more importantly, Schengen has become a point of contention
in the French presidential elections, with favorite Jacques Chirac
threatening to pull France out if it fails to counter illegal
immigration.
But Belgian Deputy Foreign Minister Robert Urbain, who chaired a
meeting to assess the situation since Schengen became operational March
26, played down the difficulties.
``For such a fundamental reform, so vast, it is normal to have several
difficulties,'' he said, arguing that the transition has mostly been
smooth within the seven-nation zone of France, Germany, Spain,
Portugal, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.
EU Commissioner Mario Monti has said he will press the member states
until all 15 nations form a seamless bloc. But expansion is a huge
challenge.
Einem said Austria said it has to reinforce 1,450 kilometers of borders
on non-Schengen nations before it can relax internal borders, a process
expected to take two years.
Drawing in the EU members states from Scandinavia -- Denmark, Sweden
and Finland -- will also pose major problems, since the three are
already committed to a similar system with Iceland and Norway, two
non-EU members.
The Schengen system is limited to EU members and should not
automatically allow people from Iceland to travel through Denmark and
into the EU without passport controls.
The nations were Schengen is already up and running maintained that the
system has already proved its value with airline passengers sweeping
through most of their airports without a wave of their passport on
internal Schengen flights.
``Millions of travelers profit from this,'' said German State Secretary
Bernd Schmidbauer.
On top of that, police cooperation has already yielded results.
The Schengen states can consult each other's data on criminals through
a joint computer in Strasbourg, France, and many have been caught
through such cooperation.
``Up to 30 percent more people who tried to get into the country
illegally or who were fugitive criminals have been caught,'' said
Schmidbauer.
