The common wisdom is that every era has its own esthetic. Broadly
speaking, one could say that Picasso did not paint like Rembrandt, and
Rembrandt did not paint like Picasso.
Dance, until now, has also furthered the impression that a dominant
trend defines choreographers who are contemporary with one another.
Merce Cunningham and George Balanchine had opposite views about music.
But beginning with the 1960s, their formalist vision, at odds with the
dance-dramas of the 1940s and 1950s, held sway for three decades.
How, then, can one explain that two visiting troupes in New York
earlier this month seemed worlds apart? ``Noiject,'' the latest
premiere by Saburo Teshigawara and his Karas company from Tokyo,
performed in the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival during
the same week that Smuin Ballets/SF, a new troupe that Michael Smuin
founded in San Francisco, made its New York debut with ``Dances With
Songs'' at the Joyce Theater.
``Noiject,'' with its black-clad dancers stamping and slamming against
walls and a floor of iron, creates a singular theatrical environment
that resonates with allusions to the post-industrial technological age.
By contrast, not a computer disk comes to mind in the lovelorn laments
and ballroom romances that Smuin's group performs to popular music in
``Dances With Songs.''
In this case, at least, Smuin is reaching into nostalgia with
recordings by, among others, Peggy Lee, Linda Ronstadt, Willie Nelson
and Edith Piaf. His vocabulary is conventional, comforting to the point
of blandness.
``Noiject,'' on the other hand, with its high-decibel sound and
intensity, seeks to stimulate and disconcert. Teshigawara deserves more
attention, in that he is trying, if not always successfully, to
redefine dance through an exercise in discontinuity.
``Noiject'' is less a critique of the machine age than a coming to
terms with it. The iron panels on stage that make up the three walls
and the floor are smooth and modern, a far cry from the Iron Age of
man's beginnings. Substances remain the same, but they can be
transformed: `Noiject'' suggests that the body, if regarded as an
object, also changes in function and appearance.
The dancers who open the work wear the kind of surgical masks that
Japanese city dwellers wear to ward off germs. Unusually, however, the
masks here are black, as are the costumes of the dancers, headed by
Teshigawara, Kei Miyata, Shun Ito and Koichi Ienaga.
Teshigawara knows how to create atmosphere. This enclosed environment,
bathed initially in ice-cold light, with anonymous-looking dancers
picking up one another's gestures, is less hostile than it seems. It is
merely a receptacle for artifacts.
Five wheels roll out on their own from the wings after the electronic
tape roars to a high pitch. The choreographer performs a series of
solos full of eccentric, rubber-legged movement that isolates parts of
his body.
Dressed in mod black-plastic tights, four dancers move more slowly,
shifting weight from side to side, and softly fall on their insteps.
With kamikazelike fervor, men frenetically rattle switches on the floor
or the wall that light up a series of suspended bulbs.
Ms. Miyata does a twitchy solo. A light change makes the walls look
rusty: the brave new world is already rotting. Suddenly, the
choreographer appears in a red gown.
The piece, at this point, becomes less coherent, even in its deliberate
series of non sequiturs. The accelerated dancing, however, is
impressively precise. Teshigawara spins in a stiff coat, a distorted
figure in a kimono with a life of its own. The cast grows larger and
parades in what looks like the latest Japanese constructed fashions,
complete with wilted Mickey Mouse ears.
But old symbols (suggesting tradition or modern times) do not apply.
``Noiject'' offers no moral. Its focus is on movement that becomes
interesting only when its appearance is affected by speed or
distortion. But movement is very much a part of this environment in
which the strange becomes familiar. When a steel ball falls from above,
barely missing the choreographer, it happens too fast to elicit gasps
from the audience.
The risk Smuin takes is of a different kind: how to avoid triteness in
approaching the lyrics of popular music. Rather than comment on such
material, as does Paul Taylor, Smuin does not look for a subtext.
That is his privilege, but a choreographer who could produce a witty
``Peter and the Wolf'' for American Ballet Theater in 1992 might be
expected to throw in a few asides.
This he refuses to do, and most of the program in ``Dances With Songs''
would look better on a television special than on a concert stage.
Smuin has assembled a fine group of ballet-trained dancers, some of
whom, like Gregory Amato and Tiffany Heft, project strongly as
jazz-tinged show-dance performers.
All succeed best when their individuality shines through the literal
images that illustrate the lyrics. Jennifer Jaffe's love affair with a
chair in ``Fever'' is an outstanding performance, both sizzling and
disciplined in its form.
Along the way, Nemisio Paredes, a 62-year-old dentist, proves that
flamenco is more than his hobby. ``Dances With Songs'' has the kind of
informal party atmosphere in which anybody can get up and dance. That
makes it a piece for one rather than all occasions.
On the surface, these two programs had nothing in common. Yet on a
deeper level, they testify to the disorientation of the dance world,
itself a reflection of the universe around it.
If Smuin and Teshigawara are worlds apart, perhaps this is because, for
the first time in decades, there is no dominant dance esthetic.
