Corruption can of worms shakes Lebanon to the core 
Charges of corruption among veteran political figures have rocked
Lebanon in the past few days, plunging the country into its darkest
period since the end of the 15-year civil war.
Every day a new name is added to the list of political figures who
allegedly dabbled in graft, prompting several of those implicated to
break an uneasy silence and strike back.
The accusations snowballed last week when Prime Minister Rafic Hariri,
stung by opposition attacks, announced his resignation late Thursday
after a cabinet meeting.
Hariri's political future was still uncertain Sunday after he held
talks with Syrian Vice President Abdel Halim Khaddam in Damascus.
Discussions were due to continue Monday.
An aide accompanying Hariri said Damascus tried to persuade the prime
minister to reconsider his decision, but did not present any compromise
formula.
Accusations by MP Najah Wakim that the billionaire premier had been
involved in shady deals during the establishment of the real estate
company Solidere propelled Hariri into taking his stand which he said
was "irreversible."
Hariri is a major shareholder of the company Solidere, entrusted with
rebuilding Beirut following the 1975-1990 civil war.
President Elias Hrawi has also joined the fray, pointing an accusing
finger at a former prime minister, the ex-speaker of the house and the
current deputy speaker of parliament, denouncing them for fiscal fraud.
The can of worms was opened when a prosecutor charged that Lebanese MP
Yehiya Shamass was suspected of drug-trafficking and demanded that his
parliamentary immunity be removed.
Parliament agreed to lift Shamass' immunity at a special session on
November 17 but the MP in turn accused Hrawi's son, Roy, of
drugs-smuggling.
He also charged that the head of Syrian intelligence services in
Lebanon General Ghazi Kanaan had opened the file against him to settle
old scores over a real estate dispute.
By dragging Syria into the affair Shamass broke a taboo of silence over
the influence wielded in Lebanon by Damascus, which deploys 35,000
troops in the country.
The president's son protested his innocence while Shamass was locked up
in jail during the investigation.
A week later the president hit back with angry, unprecedented remarks,
charging that former parliamentary speaker Hussein Husseini and
ex-premier Omar Karami had made false declarations over land and
property deals.
Karami went on the attack challenging Hrawi to a televised debate.
Hrawi also accused deputy speaker of the house Elie Ferzli of accepting
bribes to exonerate former president Amin Gemayel, under investigation
for alleged corruption during the purchase of French Puma helicopters
in 1983.
Ferzli heads the parliamentary commission investigating the Puma sale.
Hariri also blasted "those who make accusations of corruption to cover
up their own corruption and to stain others and society."
"If corruption has a (bad) smell, uprightness has a good one," he said.
"People point accusing fingers at those (militias) who became rich by
robbing them and humiliating them but they know there are those who
earned their wealth by the sweat of their brows," he added.
Hariri, whose personal wealth is estimated at four billion dollars,
made his fortune in Saudi Arabia.
Several of his detractors have accused him and his entourage of
"exploiting power for personal use" and of getting a cut of dubious
reconstruction contracts.
MP Najah Wakim, dubbed here Mr. Clean, has indirectly accused Hariri,
without naming him, of handing out bribes to 30 deputies to secure a
vote in parliament to set up Solidere.
It is too early to say just how far the anti-corruption drive will go
in a country still licking its wounds after the war.
But many observers here fear the backlash of what some are terming a
perverse effort to wipe the political slate clean.
