Algeria boosts security at oilfields 
The Algerian government has tightened security for the country's
economically vital oilfields, creating four zones under military
surveillance, as Islamic extremists pursued a campaign of sabotage
attacks.
Security agents, the army and paramilitary police have been ordered to
protect the exlusion zones at El Oued, Ouargla, Ilizi and Djanet in the
Sahara, the interior ministry said in a statement reported in the press
Tuesday.
The ministry statement, made late Monday, said the only people allowed
in and out of the regions would be Algerian and foreign workers in the
oil companies and local residents, who would be given passes.
The statement stressed the "strategic importance" of the zones. Oil and
gas production accounts for some 95 percent of foreign earnings for
Algeria, which has been gripped in a civil war for the past three
years.
The unrest, which has claimed at least 30,000 lives, has largely spared
the south where some of the oilfields lie, but the network of
pipelines, coastal gas plants and isolated oilwells are potential
targets for sabotage.
Several thousand Europeans and Americans work on the oilfields, which
are already watched over by the security forces.
On October 18 last year, the most radical of the extremist factions
fighting the regime, the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) attacked an oil site
in the eastern Aures region for the first time, decapitating a French
and an Italian technician and burning the installations of the
Schlumberger company.
Suspected Islamic extremists killed an Algerian television journalist
overnight in the eastern city of Constantine after posing as police
officers and kidnappping him from his home, state television reported
Tuesday.
It said Makhlouf Boukhezar, who was in his 40s, had his throat slit by
assailants who took him from his home after masquerading as policemen.
His mutilated body was found Tuesday in the trunk of his car, the
television report said.
Boukhezar is the second broadcasting journalist to be killed in Algeria
in the last two weeks.
The other victim, Rachida Hammadi was gunned down on March 20 and died
last Friday in a Paris hospital.
The latest killing brings to 32 the number of journalists assassinated
in Algeria by suspected Islamic fundamentalists since May 1993. The GIA
recently threatened to kill television and radio journalists if they
continued to work.
The fundamentalists, who have also targeted intellectuals, teachers and
politicians, began their campaign of violence in January 1992 after the
cancellation of a second round of elections the now-outlawed Islamic
Salvation Front (FIS) was poised to win.
In separate developments, three acts of sabotage were committed against
a bridge, a television relay station and a water pumping station, near
Tizi Ouzou in the highland Kabylie region and at Mazafran west of
Algiers on Sunday night, press reports said Tuesday.
A telephone relay line was also sabotaged at two points in Kabylie.
Since the war began, some 30,000 people have been killed and in 1994
alone, almost 3,000 acts of sabotage were committed against public
buildings, telecommunications equipment and road and rail links.
