Russians panic over new dollar bills
Russians are panicking over the introduction of new 100 dollar bills,
with the affluent classes rushing to spend their old ones and employees
refusing to be paid with them.
The new notes, unveiled in the United States in September, are due here
at the end of the month or early in February, officially to help combat
the circulation of forgeries. In a bid to avert turmoil and abuses, the
central bank has ruled in agreement with eight major commercial banks
that a commission of two percent and no more will be charged for
exchanging current 100 dollar notes for the new ones.
Bank deputy chairman Alexander Khandruyev calculated that individual
Russians held more than 12 million dollars in all. "We have to
anticipate the Russian psychology," he explained. "They are going to
come rushing to swap their old notes for the new ones." He dismissed
criticisms, saying the commission was lower than the rate banks
elsewhere in the world charged, adding: "In a market economy, banks
ought to make a profit."
Another banker, remembering the dire experiences people have had with
money changes, said,"I fear panic, with long queues outside the money
changers and lots of dissatisfied people. We will have to work harder
and the commission is like an insurance for the banks."
Russians traditionally hoard their savings in the proverbial woolen
stocking rather than in a bank account. They have bitter memories of
previous issues of new notes. In 1992, almost overnight, the government
suppressed 50 and 100 ruble notes and gave the populace just three days
to make the change. Many pensioners were ruined. It was the same story
a year later when Soviet-era currency had to be replaced by Russian
Federation currency.
With the fall of the ruble over the years, people have got into the
habit of changing their local wages into dollars at the many foreign
exchange bureaux across the country, and pensioners do likewise.
Despite the reassuring noises from the authorities this time, people
with dollar savings are getting very edgy. The US monetary authorities
too have given reassurances that the 100 dollar bills in circulation
will not be recalled and remain legal tender.
But Yelena, in her 30s, who works for an advertising agency and is paid
in dollars like many of the burgeoning Russian "middle class," is
unconvinced. "I do not want to lose my money, and I want my next pay
packet in small denominations," she said.
