Italy's New Premier Pledge
In a move intended to appease his predecessor, Italy's new prime
minister, Lamberto Dini, said Wednesday that he and his Cabinet of
``technicians'' would stay in office long enough to enact its program,
and then make way for a newly elected government.
The outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, said Tuesday that he
would not support Dini's new government in parliament unless he was
assured that it would lead to new elections soon.
Wednesday, Berlusconi said he wanted a public commitment not only from
Dini but also from President Oscar Luigi Scalfero, who he said had
promised a mid-June election date in private conversations last week.
In a statement read at his first news conference, Dini said his
government has a ``duty to carry out its unavoidable emergency task
until the political forces freely chosen by the voters are able to form
a government which is more representative of popular sovereignty.''
Dini, who had been treasury minister in the outgoing government,
avoided mentioning any date, noting that only Scalfero has the
constitutional authority to call an election. But he said he would hand
in his mandate as soon as his government accomplished its objectives,
which he said could be a matter of ``a few months.''
The new prime minister, a former general director of the Bank of Italy
who kept the job of treasury minister for himself, said he was keenly
aware of the ``restlessness on national and international markets,'' as
a result of Italy's political crisis.
Thus, he said, there is an urgent need for ``an effective government of
action which must be carried out with full responsibility, and thus
with the loyal support of the widest possible parliamentary majority.''
Members of parliament said Wednesday that the debate on the new
government will begin early next week, with a confidence vote in the
Chamber of Deputies likely to come as early as Wednesday. The new
government has 10 days from the date of its appointment to win approval
from both houses of parliament.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
Without the support of Berlusconi's Forza Italia party, however, Dini
will have a hard time getting his program of economic and electoral
reforms passed.
At an earlier news conference, Berlusconi said he would not be
satisfied with promises made by the new prime minister alone. ``It is
not enough to say that once the program has been carried out, the
government will quit,'' Berlusconi said. ``There must be two public
affirmations. A promise must be made to the Italian people.''
Dini conferred Wednesday night with Scalfero, but no new statement was
expected. Scalfero has been sharply attacked in the last two days by
Berlusconi's allies, who have accused the president of luring the
former prime minister into a trap that left him with no representation
in the new government and no formal commitment that Dini's role would
be transitional only.
The clash has turned on the question of new elections, which the
Berlusconi faction thought was an understood, although not public, part
of the deal leading to Dini's appointment as prime minister last week.
From the day he resigned Dec. 22, Berlusconi has insisted either on his
own reappointment as prime minister, or on new elections.
``To put off elections would be running away from reality, from
responsibility, from the possibility of putting through reforms,''
Berlusconi said again Wednesday.
Scalfero has said that he has so far not found a clear will in
parliament for a return to the ballot box so soon after last March's
vote.
