Four East Timorese seek sanctuary in Spanish embassy 
Four East Timorese who entered the Spanish embassy here Tuesday seeking
asylum in Portugal will remain on the premises overnight, Spanish
ambassador Antonio Sanchez Jara told AFP late Tuesday.
"It is confirmed there are four East Timorese in the embassy," Jara
said. "They came in at 10.30 a.m. (0330 GMT)."
He said the four would spend the night in the embassy chancellery with
a Spanish diplomat, and the embassy had provided them with food and
water during the day.
The asylum seekrs have identified themselves as Alberto da Silva of
Bacau, Gorgino Justino, Edmundo Pereira and Izidio Nogueira, all of Los
Palos.
Asked when the group would leave, Jara said: "The sooner, the better."
Henri Fournier, a regional delegate of the International Committee of
the Red Cross (ICRC), said late Tuesday the ICRC was "still waiting for
the green light" from Indonesian authorities to let the four leave for
Portugal.
The 23 year-old da Silva, was making his second asylum attempt in a
foreign embassy in Jakarta, according to a statement released by the
group.
He was one of three East Timorese who entered the French embassy on the
night of October 15, only to be expelled from the premises the
following morning by security guards, the statement said.
Da Silva said there was a group 10 ten youths hiding in Jakarta who
wanted to enter the Spanish embassy, but only four of them had decided
to jump the wall.
The others are still in hiding, according to East Timorese sources in
Jakarta.
The asylum bid came amid protests held in East Timor and Jakarta
marking Tuesday's fifth anniversary of a massacre of 200 people by
Indonesian troops at the Santa Cruz cemetery in Dili, the East Timor
capital.
Da Silva said the four were "all witnesses" to the Santa Cruz massacre
and feared for their safety in East Timor.
"We have been chased by the army in East Timor ... although not
everyone in East Timor wants to seek asylum, it is only those of us
whose identity is already known to the authorities," Da Silva said.
It is the 10th time this year East Timorese have sought refuge in
foreign embassies in Jakarta.
The ICRC assists East Timorese who take refuge in foreign embassys to
fly to Lisbon.
Indonesia invaded the former Portuguese colony in 1975 and annexed the
territory the following year, in a move never recognised by the United
Nations.
