I hope I had the time of my life
By Vladimir Putin
Bio & Blog
People are begging me to stay on as President of Russia. "Please Sir
Putin, do not give up leadership of this country. You are perfect." I
must confess to them and to you blog readers that I am not perfect. I
am very close, but not completely without defect. I have been trying to
have scientists alienate the few remaining chromosomes of my body that
are imperfect. In a few months, with any lucky, I will have a super
steel enforced exoskeleton and be able to shoot dinosaurs out of my
wrists. I know it sounds a little wild, but when I was a kid I always
imagined I was a superhero that could shoot dinosaurs out of my wrists.
Imagine being able to project velocaraptors at enemies. It would be an
awesome mutant ability.
Anyway, the truth is I am indeed giving up the throne of the President
on May 7th. I honestly can't remember the name of the fellow who is
supposed to take over control. I think his name is "Medievel" or
something. I remember looking through a big book of government official
names and picking his because I always used to say that to people
before I tortured them with my laser beams: "I'm going to get medieval
on you now."
I must confess, there is a lot of pressure being the President of
Russia. I'm actually glad I'm not going to be in the hot seat anymore.
By the way I have had some of my men rig the Presidential chair with
actual electricity so if the new President does not do exactly as I
command it will literally be a hot seat.
As Russia's new prime minister, I at least won't be in the spotlight as
much any longer, which will allow me to return to my favorite
hobby--spying. First, I have plans to go fishing with a buddy in a lake
in Chechnya and then launch a surprise attack destroying several
shipping ports vital to their economy. I also plan to travel to the
U.S. and tour places I've always wanted to see such as the FBI and CIA
information vaults. I would also love to do something I've always
dreamed of doing before I die: assassinate a US president.
So after today, if you hear on the news that the Bush has just been
mauled by a flying projectile velocaraptor, then please know that I
have successfully accomplished one of my life-long dreams!
