Int'l Shipping, Aviation Center 
Hong Kong maintained its position as the world's busiest container port
for six years in a row in 1997.
Including container terminals, mid-stream and river trade, it handled
14.5 million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) of containers in 1997.
About 90 percent, by weight, of Hong Kong's external trade is handled
by the port, according to Hong Kong's Port Development Board (POB),
which forecasts that, with the economic and trade development of Hong
Kong and the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong has to cope with a steady
growth of container cargo well into the 21st century.
A new container terminal, Container Terminal 9, is expected to be
completed in the early 2000s, which will expand substantially the
handling capacity of the existing eight container terminals at the Kwai
Chung/Stonecutters Island Container Port.
Meanwhile, work continued on both the new River Trade Terminal at Tuen
Men and the Permanent Mid-stream Facility at Stonecutters Island. Both
facilities are due to come into operation this year.
The throughput of the Hong Kong container port is forecast to grow on
an annual average of 5.8 percent in the next 10 years to 24 million
TEUs in 2006, and Hong Kong will retain its role as the major container
port for import and export to the Chinese mainland, according to the
latest findings of the Hong Kong Port Cargo Forecasts commissioned by
POB.
On the other hand, Hong Kong remains a prominent center for
ship-owning, ship-financing and ship-management. Latest figures from
the Hong Kong Shipping Register showed that a total fleet of 486
vessels, amounting to 6.13 million gross registered tons (GRT), were
registered under Hong Kong flag.
Hong Kong also stands as the hub of international and regional
aviation, with the status certainly to be enhanced by the forthcoming
opening of the new international airport at Chek Lap Kok.
Having served Hong Kong for several decades, the existing Kai Tak
airport has been lauded as one of the safest and most efficient
airports in the world. In the financial year ending March 31, 1997, the
passenger throughput at Kai Tak grew by 7.5 percent to over 30 million
while air cargo throughput jumped by 9.8 percent to over 1.6 million
tons.
In 1996, Kai Tak overtook Tokyo Narita to become the world's busiest
airport in terms of international cargo. In respect of international
passengers, it remained the third busiest after London Heathrow and
Frankfurt.
To accommodate continued robust growth in air traffic, the
20-billion-U.S. dollar Airport Core Program was started in the early
1990s. The world-class infrastructure project consists of 10 projects:
the new airport, the airport railway, roads, bridges and tunnels and
even a new town.
Upon opening on July 6, with the first of the two runways in operation,
the new airport is able to handle 35 million passengers and up to 3
million tons of air cargo annually.
