Mexico Says Salinas Brother Funneled 1 Million Pesos For Official's Killing 
A brother of former Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari
funneled more than dlrs 300,000 to pay for the killing of a top
political figure, Mexican prosecutors said in court papers made public
Thursday.
The allegations were made as part of an 800-page filing by prosecutors
who seek to extradite the victim's brother, Mario Ruiz Massieu, a
former prosecutor who is being held in the United States on a currency
violation charge.
Ruiz Massieu is accused of blocking the investigation into his own
brother's killing, steering the probe away from the president's
brother, Raul Salinas de Gortari, who has been charged in the killing.
Ruiz Massieu has denied the charges.
He has told prosecutors that he had informed then-President Salinas de
Gortari early in the investigation that his brother had been implicated
by witnesses, according to the papers.
He said he had told the president that several people interviewed about
the assassination had mentioned Raul Salinas and ``there was a need to
bring him in,'' according to the papers.
The papers, though, do not state that Carlos Salinas de Gortari had
covered-up the killing.
The papers provide the first specifics of the case against Ruiz Massieu
and another prosecutor, Jorge Anastacio Stergios Gomez, who directly
supervised the inquiry into the death of Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu.
The Sept. 28, 1994, shooting death of Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu in
Mexico City was one of a series of assassinations that rocked Mexico in
recent months. He was former secretary-general of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party, which has governed Mexico the past 66 years.
According to the papers, Raul Salinas de Gortari funneled 1 million
pesos (more than dlrs 300,000) to Congressman Manuel Munoz Rocha to
arrange the killing. Munoz is a fugitive whose wife believes he is
dead.
In recent depositions, some of those already convicted in the
assassination accuse Mario Ruiz Massieu and Gomez of intimidation and
torture to keep the name of the Raul Salinas out of the probe,
according to the papers.
Mario Ruiz Massieu had quit as deputy attorney general in November,
charging that senior officials in the governing party had blocked his
efforts to solve the murder, which he said was motivated by efforts to
eliminate a party reformer.
He left Mexico a day after being interviewed by Mexican prosecutors and
was arrested days later at Newark International Airport on the currency
charge.
The other prosecutor, Stergios Gomez, is also considered a fugitive
after an arrest warrant was issued for him May 3.
Six accomplices and the gunman in the shooting have been sentenced to
terms ranging from 37 years to 50 years.
