On A Fashionable Avenue, An Owner Takes The Long-Term Approach To
Investing
The number 654 has followed N. Anthony Rolfe around for more than 50
years, he says. He was assigned to an LST bearing that number as a
young naval officer in 1943, and he served on it for three years.
But in and out in three years is not the way this real-estate broker
and investor has operated as a civilian.
Last month, he concluded a new 15-year lease with Calvin Klein for a
20,000-square-foot showcase store in a building at 654 Madison Avenue,
at the northwest corner of 60th Street. Rolfe is the managing partner
in the ownership group.
The lease will put Calvin Klein on the same block as Barney's,
reinforcing the southern end of a high-fashion stretch of Madison
Avenue that extends at least as far as the Ralph Lauren store at 72nd
Street. Along the way one passes such names as Valentino, Giorgio
Armani, Versace, and Gianfranco Ferre. Coming soon will be Prada, a
leading leather-goods retailer, on the southeastern corner of 70th
Street, and Crate &AMP; Barrel, the home furnishings retailer, at the
northwest corner of 59th Street.
Rolfe's long tenure at 654 Madison Avenue and as the conversion sponsor
at Imperial House, a large East Side co-op, make the case for patience,
staying power and conservative financing as central elements of success
in Manhattan real-estate investment.
At Imperial House, he and the late Edward Sulzberger sponsored a
conversion under a noneviction plan in 1970. He sold apartments retail
-- to individual tenants or to outsiders for occupancy when he had a
vacancy -- but not in bulk to other investors.
``It has taken me 23 years to sell 290 apartments,'' Rolfe said. ``We
still own 46.'' About 100 of the sales were to tenants after the
conversion took effect, made at various prices through the years.
He never pledged unsold shares to obtain new financing for other
acquisitions. When the building was sold to the co-op corporation, the
co-op received all the elements of the property -- the stores and the
garage as well as the apartments. They provided income to strengthen
the buiilding's finances, allowing it more resources for maintenance
and improvements, and thereby enhancing resale values.
``It's no secret,'' Rolfe said. ``Success in a deal is at the buy. You
ask yourself, `Can I carry it in the worst possible situation?' Staying
power is the most important ingredient. You can't be overloaded with
debt. You can't be looking for a quick turnaround. You don't look for
liquidity.
``Harry Helmsley used to say that when things went bad in the city in
the '70s the things he couldn't get rid of turned out to be the biggest
bonanzas.''
Rolfe, who is 70, was the brother-in-law as well as the partner of
Sulzberger, who for 50 years headed the firm of Sulzberger Rolfe Inc.
Sulzberger handled the management side of the business. He died in
1986. Four years later the company was sold to the Milstein family,
owner of Douglas Elliman Gibbons &AMP; Ives.
Rolfe was the senior sales broker, the main dealmaker. In 1958, he
represented Irving Brodsky, who was buying a small interest in the
operating lease to 654 Madison as a minority partner of Helmsley and
his associates. Eventually the Sulzberger-Rolfe interests bought out
the other partners.
For many years, Rolfe hoped to buy the land under the building -- the
fee position -- which would free the owner as operating lessee from
paying land rent. The fee was sold instead to a bank that was a tenant
in the building. When the tenant was acquired by another bank and
wanted to move, Rolfe released the bank -- Manufacturers &AMP; Traders
Trust Co., based in Buffalo, N.Y. -- from eight remaining years on its
lease as part of a deal to acquire the fee. The financial terms were
not disclosed.
``Owning the fee is the name of the game,'' Rolfe said. ``It always
was. An operating leasehold is like owning a stock. The fee is a bond.
When inflation is going up you want the stock, and the bondholder is
stuck. But the day comes ... .'' His voice trailed off suggestively.
When ``the day comes'' for a co-op that happens to have been built or
converted on leased land, many co-op owners are not prepared for the
impact of a newly negotiated lease on their monthly maintenance
charges. Long-term land leases are subject to periodic rent
adjustments, sometimes as frequently as 10 years in leasehold co-ops,
though usually much longer in commercial leases. The rent negotiation
of renewals sometimes ends in a decision to arbitrate. The rent
increase may still be drastic.
At Imperial House, the Sulzberger and Rolfe families bought (and sold
to the co-op at the conversion) both the land and the building. The
29-story building consists of 378 apartments with stores on Third and
Lexington Avenues, with underground parking, on the full block between
68th and 69th Streets. The seller was a partnership of Fisher Brothers,
the building company, and Samuel Golding, a banker. Imperial House
opened as an unregulated rental in 1961, eight years before the
imposition of rent stabilization for postwar multifamily housing in New
York City. Until 1969, only prewar housing was regulated.
Rent stabilization led many investor-builders to withdraw from rental
development. Fisher Brothers was one of them. The Sulzberger-Rolfe
group bought the property with the intention of converting it. Having
paid a cash price of $12,000 a room for the 2,000 rooms, Rolfe said,
they were hoping to resell to tenants at $15,000 to $20,000 a room.
But only 50 of the 378 tenants initially would buy. With rent
stabilization in effect, the sponsors decided to pursue a non-eviction
conversion, selling vacancies and also selling to tenants if and when
they decided to buy. Renewal leases were offered to renters who
remained.
That meant 10 years of cash losses for the sponsor, since rents for
unsold apartments were insufficient to cover the sponsor's carrying
costs on those apartments. After that, sales income exceeded the
maintenance shortfall, and at a growing rate, Rolfe said. ``We were
home free,'' he said.
In 1970, the buyer of a 2,700-square-foot, 7-room apartment in the
tower portion of the building (with 3{ baths and 3 bedrooms) would have
paid a cash price of $123,000. Twelve years later, in 1982, three such
apartments sold. The prices were $625,000, $675,000, and $750,000.
In 1986 two sold, one for $1.6 million and the other for $1.25 million.
In 1992 one was sold for $1.45 million. None in the line have been sold
since.
At Imperial House the tower starts at the 21st floor. In the base,
apartments are also large, with generous closet space. Original buyers
in 1971 paid a cash price of $69,614 for a 1,756-square-foot five-room
apartment on the 16th floor. The same apartment resold in 1981 for
$360,000 and for $475,000 three years later. This year, the same
apartment two floors lower sold for $580,000.
The underlying first mortgage on the building, allocated to these
rooms, left shareholders with a mortgage burden amounting to $9,000 to
$10,000 a room.
Investment by the co-op itself, and by individual owners in their
apartments over the years, has helped sustain values. ``A tremendous
amount of money was spent by the co-op on preventive maintenance,
electrical system, air-conditioning and the like,'' Rolfe said.
Maintenance payments sustain an unusually large staff of 60. There are
eight elevators, seven of them manned.
On Madison Avenue, the Calvin Klein store will be on three levels plus
a mezzanine on the double-height first floor, formerly used for
banking. Company spokesmen declined to discuss the lease or how the
space would be used, but the expectation is that it will carry Calvin
Klein's full line of men's and women's clothing and also its furniture.
Most likely it won't carry the products that are merely licensed to use
the Calvin Klein name, said C. Bradley Mendelson of Edward S. Gordon
Co., who was the broker in the lease. ``Not the underwear or the
jeans,'' he said. ``Not the socks.''
