France faces new strike action from Monday
France faced a hardening from Monday of the strikes that have gripped
the country for the past 10 days, with unions calling for a general
walk-out in protest at the government's proposed welfare curbs.
The administration of Prime Minister Alain Juppe will also have to
defend itself in parliament, after the opposition socialists and their
allies put down a censure motion Saturday.
The action so far has mainly affected the transport sector, paralysing
the national rail network and the Paris bus and metro subway system,
with smaller outbreaks in the post office and electricity supply.
Marc Blondel, head of the Force Ouvriere (Workers' Force - FO) union
which is strong in the public sector, said Saturday he would call for
"a generalisation of the action to demand the withdrawal of the Juppe
plan" from Monday.
Speaking after a meeting of the FO leadership, Blondel said, "I will
ask all sectors to go on strike one after the other." He singled out
the customs services, tax offices, hospitals and infrastructure repair
and maintenance units.
FO would also take steps to bring private sector workers into the
strike, Blondel said, while adding that he was prepared to negotiate
with the governemnt if invited.
Louis Vianney, head of FO's rival, the General Labour Confederation
(CGT), was expected to make a similar call for a general strike at his
union's congress in the Paris suburb of Montreuil on Sunday.
The CGT plans a "day of action" Tuesday, including another mass
demonstration, as discontent continued to spread. New sectors likely to
be hit next week include road and air transport, the ports and the
banks, dealing a severe blow to France's faltering economy.
Faced with polls indicating that some two-thirds of the population
supports the strikers, despite severe difficulties in getting to and
from work, government efforts to counter the unions have been feeble.
A demonstration in Paris against the strikes Saturday attracted only
3,000 people.
Workers have been angered by government moves to curb the runaway
losses of the national health system, including imposing extra taxes,
and end advantageous pension rights for public sector employees.
Students and university teachers protesting chronic underfunding for
their faculties have added to the disruption.
The government is also deeply unpopular for having done a U-turn on
promises made by President Jacques Chirac ahead of his election last
May.
Socialist and allied members of the national assembly on Saturday put
down a censure motion which has no chance of approval because of the
government's overwhelming majority.
It attacked the administration for piling taxes on those least able to
afford them and undermining the social security system, which it said
was destroying national confidence, stifling growth, penalising
consumption and hitting production.
The motion is due to be debated next week before discussion of a bill
enabling the government to push through the social security reforms by
decree.
