Nine dead, 100 badly hurt in S. Africa train crash: police
Nine people were killed and about 100 seriously injured when a passenger
train collided with a goods train Tuesday in South Africa's eastern
KwaZulu-Natal province, a senior rail official said.
Rescue workers were trying to free dozens of people trapped inside
mangled passenger coaches on the twin-track line in a valley at rural
Charlotte's Dale, about 60 kilometres (40 miles) north of the port city
of Durban.
Nine people were known to have lost their lives, Metrorail official
Sifiso Lukhele told an AFP correspondent, who saw the bodies covered in
paper sheets as more casualties were being taken from the wreckage in
body bags.
Passengers at the front of the train had been "minced", a shaken police
officer who did not want to give his name said. Rescue workers said
they feared a rise in the death toll.
"It is very bad. We have 100 seriously injured people," Police Captain
Len John said, estimating that about 50 people remained trapped in the
front coaches of the passenger train.
Lukhele, the acting regional manager for Metrorail in the Durban area,
said the passenger train had run into the back of the stationary goods
train as it was making its way from Stanger to Durban, but the cause of
the accident was not known.
"All I heard was a loud bang and the screams of the passengers,"
15-year-old Bruce Bodozu, who was hurt in both legs, said. The youth,
accompanied by his sister, had been going home from school in Stanger
to Groutville near the crash site.
"This was an accident," the pair's father Sibonelo told AFP. "It could
happen at any time. I'm not angry at Metrorail. But if the cause was
negligence, the company should take steps to ensure it doesn't happen
again."
The driver and two other Metrorail staff from the passenger train were
taken to hospital, rescue workers said as police, paramedics and
soldiers joined forces under overcast skies in a coordinated operation.
"We have not been able to talk to the driver," John said.
Many of the injured were laid out either side of the tracks for
treatment, while emergency services using a helicopter and ambulances
ferried casualties to hospitals in Stanger and the Durban suburb of
Umhlanga.
Local people had come to the scene to help police, troops and
paramedics carry their heavy equipment to the crash site.
"There will be a thorough investigation because it's the public's right
to know what happened, especially so soon after the KwaMashu train
crash," Lukhele said, referring to an accident near Durban on December
27, in which the driver died and 51 passengers were injured when two
commuter trains collided.
"If anyone is responsible, the necessary measures will be taken,"
Lukhele vowed.
He offered his condolences to bereaved families and those of the
injured.
"Metrorail will look into compensation," he added.
The rail company had already compensated 17 people in connection with
the KwaMashu accident and 27 others were in line, he said.
The cause of that crash is still being investigated, but was initially
attributed to possible signal failure or a mechanical problem.
Lukhele said Metrorail would be holding a press conference on Wednesday
at 9:00 am (0700 GMT).
