UAE introduces death penalty for drug-trafficking 
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) cabinet on Monday adopted the death
penalty for drug-traffickers and ordered prison terms of at least four
years for users, the official agency Wam said.
UAE President Sheikh Zayed ibn Sultan al-Nahyan said in March that
sentences handed out by courts for drugs cases "are not dissuasive or
effective in fighting the plague which has particularly hit our young
people."
The tougher penalties were passed at a cabinet meeting amid mounting
concern that drug-use was spreading to the UAE's own youngsters and not
just expatriates as before.
The government had already recommended harsher punishment for
drug-trafficking in 1992 after it reached alarming proportions.
Since then death sentences have been handed out in "exceptional cases"
in anticipation of the new law, a justice ministry spokesman told AFP.
According to police more than eight tonnes of hashish, cocaine, heroin,
opium and other drugs have been seized in the past three years most
transiting the UAE.
UAE officials blame the proximity of drugs-producing countries such as
Pakistan and Afghanistan, and the difficulty of monitoring the 500
kilometres (310 miles) of coastline.
Gulf diplomats said the new tougher measures had been influenced by
Saudi Arabia, which adopted the death penalty in 1987 for traffickers
and addicts who refuse to kick the habit.
"The two countries are neighbours and have open borders," a Western
diplomat said. Most of the 95 people beheaded in Saudi Arabia so far
this year have been drugs-smugglers.
Dubai's police chief, General Dhahi Khalfan, said he hoped other Gulf
states would now follow.
"Now that the UAE and Saudi Arabia have the death penalty, we hope
other Gulf states will follow in their footsteps so we can all fight
strongly against this traffic and block access to the smugglers," he
said.
For the UAE the death penalty "fills a legal gap which was exploited by
the traffickers," he added.
The UAE has voiced mounting concern that its own youths are the target
of what the press calls the "dealers in death."
Soltana Othman Yussef, a sociologist working for the interior ministry,
says that from 1985 to 1987 Asians headed the list of those involved in
drugs.
But from 1988 a new phenomenon emerged when UAE nationals moved to the
top of the list, she said.
A total of 495 nationals were involved in drug offences last year,
according to a study published in the Ash-Shuruk weekly.
Ali Buhindi, head of the anti-drugs department in Sharjah, said three
nationals died from drug abuse in the emirate last year.
Drug-dealers will use any means available to ply their trade, another
security official said. "Every day they push back the limits of
imagination to be able to bring in their products."
Last week Abu Dhabi police reported the seizure of 100 kilometres (220
pounds) of hashish hidden in bottles of tomato ketchup.
The federation of seven emirates has more than two million inhabitants,
of which 70 percent are foreign according to unofficial estimates.
