Newspaper: Republican Leaders Say They Will Try To Bloc Korea 
Republican leaders in the U.S. Senate will seek to overturn the Clinton
administration's nuclear accord with North Korea by withholding funds
to carry it out, a newspaper reported Sunday.
Republican senators said in interviews with The New York Times that
they were upset that dlrs 4 billion in international aid had been
promised to North Korea to build nuclear reactors even though the
Communist nation was not expected to permit inspections of several of
its nuclear sites for five years.
Japan and South Korea are expected to provide most of the money to help
North Korea build light-water nuclear reactors. It is harder to extract
plutonium for use in nuclear weapons from such reactors.
Under the October agreement, the United States was expected to spend
tens of millions of dollars to provide North Korea with oil until the
reactors are built.
But Sen. Frank Murkowski of Alaska, who is likely to become the
chairman of the Senate subcommittee on East Asian affairs when the new
Republican-controlled Congress is seated in January, said he would try
to block U.S. funding for the oil purchase.
``I don't support the Administration's concessions, which I find
totally unacceptable,'' Murkowski told the Times. ``We have given away
the store. I don't know what we've gotten in return other than
promises.''
Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, who is expected to become the Senate Majority
Leader, and Sen. Jesse Helms, the likely chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, have also criticized the accord.
``Among Republicans there is enormous dissatisfaction with the
policy,'' Sen. Hank Brown of Colorado told the newspaper. ``Twice the
North Koreans have promised inspections, and twice they've refused.''
The Senate is scheduled to hold a hearing on the accord on Tuesday.
Robert L. Gallucci, the chief U.S. negotiator with North Korea, said in
an interview with the Times that a decision by the Congress to withhold
funds for the oil purchase ``would undo the deal.'' However, Gallucci
said that once administration officials explain the national security
interests at stake in the deal to Republican leaders, Congress will not
vote to overturn it.
One senior Republican senator, John Warner of Virginia, told the
newspaper that he had doubts about reopening the agreement.
``It's better we try in succeeding months or years to strengthen what's
in place,'' Warner said.
