Japanese business confidence deteriorates in August 
Japanese business confidence deteriorated in August with the diffusion
index for large manufacturers falling from minus three points in May to
minus seven, the Bank of Japan said in a quarterly report Wednesday.
The central bank had forecast the diffusion index at zero in its last
short-term "Tankan" survey of economic enterprises released in June.
On the Tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar rose sharply from
107.75 yen immediately prior to the announcement to 108.12 yen, dealers
said.
Dealers said the weaker-than-expected outcome prompted immediate dollar
buying support. Market consensus was for a modest improvement in the
August Tankan to zero.
The index measures the difference between the number of responses with
a positive outlook towards the economy minus those with negative
projections in the survey of more than 10,000 companies.
The Bank of Japan forecast its next quarterly Tankan in November would
show an index of zero, the first time the index has been out of
negative territory in four years and nine months.
Central bank officials told reporters the index showed the first
deterioration in a year, since it fell to minus-18 in August 1995 from
minus-16 in the previous survey.
The Bank of Japan said the August level was the lowest since the
February survey, when the index stood at minus-12.
In the August survey, the index for non-manufacturers stood at minus
four, an improvement from minus nine in May. It had been expected to be
minus-three for August. In the next survey, the Bank of Japan expects
the non-manufacturers index at minus-three.
By sector, a major bright spot was that the index of the leasing sector
turned positive, rising to plus-20 from minus-seven, the first time it
has been in positive territory since November 1990, the Bank of Japan
said. The leasing index was at its highest since February 1990, when it
stood at 27.
The Bank of Japan said the latest survey was based on manufacturer
assumptions that the dollar-yen exchange rate in the year to March 1997
would average 102.23 yen, compared with 101.39 in the May survey.
Analysts said the survey confirmed that Japan's economic recovery
remained sluggish and indicated interest rates were unlikely to rise in
the foreseeable future.
"My view is that the recovery is more sluggish than the consensus, with
a weak 1997 likely," said ING Baring Securities analyst Tod Wood.
