Saudi King Welcomes Iran's Invitation to Islamic 
Saudi King Fahd has welcomed Iran's invitation to him to attend an
Islamic summit due in Tehran in December, reports from the Saudi
kingdom said today.
The Kuwait News Agency (KUNA) said the visiting Iranian Foreign
Minister Ali Akbar Velayati conveyed the invitation from President
Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani during a meeting with King Fahd late last
night.
Velayati, who who arrived in the Saudi capital of Riyadh Saturday, told
a press conference after meeting the Saudi King that "King Fahd
welcomed the invitation and said he would participate as much as it
would be possible for him," according to the report.
The Iranian foreign minister is currently on a tour to countries of the
region to extend invitations to heads of states and governments of
Muslim countries for the 8th summit of the Organization of Islamic
Countries (OIC), the world's largest Muslim body.
The report said that Velayati also held talks with the Saudi Foreign
Minister Prince Saud Al-Faisal AL-Saud during which they discussed such
topics as security and bilateral trade exchange, disputed islands with
the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the issue of Jerusalem as well as the
Gulf situation.
The Iranian minister was quoted by the KUNA as saying after the talks
they tackled a part of the issue such as trade cooperation and the
discussions would continue.
"Consolidating cooperation to ensure security is also an Iranian
demand, and the door is open," he said.
But concerning reports about an unannounced non-aggression accord among
Gulf states, he said "I am not aware where such an accord or treaty had
been prepared."
"Let me assure you that there is concurrence among us as to
arrangements for stability and arriving at security measures in the
region," he said.
On the issue of the disputed islands between Iran and the UAE, he said
that Iran "has always expressed readiness to start direct talks with
the UAE and there is a known accord signed by us and the UAE," adding
that the agreement, in which the British Foreign Ministry was then a
part, "should be the basis for any talks between the two sides."
The disputed Islands in the Gulf have been held by Iran but also
claimed by the United Arab Emirates, resulting in the strained
relations between Iran and the Gulf Arab countries.
The UAE is a close political and economic ally of Saudi Arabia in the
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) which also groups Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain
and Qatar.
Saudi Arabia is the second leg of Velayati's 10-nation tour which first
took him to Uganda and will also take him to other Gulf Arab states,
Turkey, Sudan and Czech Republic.
Velayati had just completed a tour of Southeast Asia in a bid to
getting support for the summit meeting. An Iranian source said recently
that Saudi Arabia's presence would be "crucial" because the Saudis
"have the capacity to make or break the conference."
Riyadh and Tehran, two of the world's biggest oil exporters, are also
at odds over the presence of U.S. and other Western forces in the Gulf.
Iran is critical of the West presence, including about 5,000 U.S.
troops in Saudi Arabia, which Iran says contributes to regional
tension.
Saudi Arabia and its Gulf Arab allies have accused Iran of interfering
in their internal affairs, and voiced concern over its arms build-up.
But Iran denies the charges.
Velayati will leave Saudi Arabia for Muscat, Oman later today.
