Northern Bosnia Heats Up, Milosevic Firm Against Recognition
Combat spread to northern Bosnia on Friday in the absence of any
momentum toward restarting peace talks.
Despite visits by European diplomats and the top U.N. official for
former Yugoslavia, Yasushi Akashi, officials in the Serbian capital
Belgrade made clear they would not go for a new international
initiative.
Mediators were trying to get Serbia's president, Slobodan Milosevic, to
recognize four former Yugoslav republics, including Croatia and Bosnia,
in exchange for an easing of economic sanctions.
Such a move would end the dream of uniting Serbs in Serbia, Bosnia and
Croatia in one state. It would isolate Serb rebels in Croatia and
Bosnia, and mediators hoped it could forestall new fighting in spring
and summer.
Most of Bosnia has been quiet since the beginning of the year under a
cease-fire agreement that lasts until May 1. Only in the far northwest
corner, around the government-held town of Bihac, has there been
consistent fighting.
Bosnian radio claimed fighting there intensified late Thursday and
early Friday. But the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees
in Zagreb, Croatia, said the third convoy in three days, with 116 tons
of food, reached hungry civilians in government-controlled territory.
Civilians there are malnourished, and UNHCR officials have warned they
could start starving soon without regular food shipments.
Fighting also was spreading slowly to other parts of Bosnia.
Foremost among them was northern Bosnia. U.N. spokesman Lt. Col. Gary
Coward said in Sarajevo that there had been an increase in shelling and
gunfire all along the front lines between Bosnian Serbs and the
Muslim-led government in the vicinity of Maglaj, which protrudes into
Serb-held land.
Another U.N. spokesman, Maj. Herve Gourmelon, reported an increase in
shelling on two other points -- Serb-held Doboj and the Serbs' vital
Posavina corridor. Doboj, north of Maglaj, controls access to a bulge
of Serb-held land that is nearly surrounded by the government.
The corridor, only a few kilometers (miles) across at its narrowest, is
all that connects Serb-held western Bosnia and Serb-held parts of
Croatia with Serbia proper. Many analysts consider it the key to the
conflicts in Croatia and Bosnia.
Some shelling also was reported around government-held Zenica and
Travnik in central Bosnia, and Tuzla to the north. Bosnian army sources
said they had attacked Bosnian Serbs north of Travnik, and that
shelling of the town and Zenica could be the Serb response.
In Belgrade, Foreign Minister Vladislav Jovanovic of Serb-led
Yugoslavia said his country had no intention of recognizing Croatia. It
has widely been assumed that Milosevic would evenutally agree to
recognize that rival state in order to get sanctions lifted.
But Jovanovic said that recognizing Croatia was not on the government's
agenda.
He said sanctions must be lifted first. ``The lifting of sanctions is
the most acute and ripe issue, upon which the speed of solving other
issues depends,'' he said.
That was a blunt reiteration of Yugoslavia's message over the weekend
after talks between Milosevic and Russian Foreign Minister Andrei
Kozyrev.
Milosevic, whose nationalist rhetoric is regarded as one of the main
causes of the wars in Croatia and Bosnia, was meeting with Akashi on
Friday.
Tough economic sanctions were slapped on Serb-led Yugoslavia in 1992 to
punish it for helping the rebel Serbs in those former Yugoslav
republics.
In addition to the war in Bosnia, which broke out in April 1992,
officials are concerned that the 1991 Serb-Croat war in Croatia will
reignite. Croatia, frustrated that the United Nations had not been able
to force a reintegration of the third of the republic under Serb
control, has ordered 12,000 peacekeepers to begin leaving March 31.
U.N. spokesman Alexander Ivanko in Sarajevo said Akashi was talking to
Milosevic about the end of the U.N. mandate in Croatia.
