ASEAN-EU economic ties bloom amid political thorns
European and Southeast Asian nations are forging ahead with programs to
boost business ties despite political disputes blocking approval of a
new economic cooperation agreement, officials said Thursday.
Foreign ministers of the European Union (EU) and Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) will issue a communique emphasizing
economic cooperation between the two regions when the meeting ends
Friday.
A draft of the communique obtained by AFP sets out programs calling for
a lowering of trade barriers, customs cooperation, establishing a forum
for top industrialists, and sharing information on how to set up a
single market.
ASEAN members Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore,
Thailand and Vietnam are in the midst of slashing tariffs and
harmonising product standards to establish an EU-inspired free trade
area by 2003.
Diplomats working on the communique said consensus was easily reached
on economic provisions while negotiations stretched over political and
human rights issues, particularly Burma, an army-ruled prospective
ASEAN member.
ASEAN's economically progressive members -- all former European
colonies except Thailand -- bristle at Western criticism of their
region's political situation and have asked to be treated as equals by
their EU partners.
"Both sides recognise that economic cooperation must be based on
partnership and mutual benefit," Singapore Deputy Premier Lee Hsien
Loong said in an opening speech Thursday to the foreign ministers'
meeting.
Singapore boasts an annual per-capita income of 25,000 US dollars,
higher than some EU members.
"We are now talking in terms of ASEAN and EU cooperating in developing
the more backward regions of Southeast Asia," said Foreign Affairs
Undersecretary Rodolfo Severino of the Philippines, a booming former
economic backwater.
ASEAN members have been the world's fastest-growing economies for the
past two decades, but are preparing to welcome three impoverished
countries -- Burma, Cambodia and Laos -- possibly as early as July.
Portugal's veto has blocked the approval of new framework agreement
broadening ASEAN-EU economic cooperation. This stems from a dispute
with Indonesia over East Timor, a former Portuguese colony annexed by
Indonesia in 1976.
Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas said "we deeply regret"
Portugal's refusal to drop its opposition to the agreement but said
cooperation was proceeding on the basis of older agreements.
Under a consensus reached by senior officials earlier this week, East
Timor will not be mentioned in the communique but the EU succeeded in
inserting a paragraph stating that there was an exchange of views on
Burma.
The absence of the so-called "third generation" agreement governing
ASEAN-EU economic cooperation has failed to dampen trade and investment
links. Commerce is booming and investments are rising -- both ways.
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. paid over 675 million US dollars for
a 12.5 percent stake in Belgium's telephone monopoly Belgacom last
year.
More recently, Malaysian car maker Proton and its chairman Yahaya Ahmed
bought a controlling stake in British sports car maker Lotus for more
than 100 million dollars.
Total trade between the EU and ASEAN was close to 100 billion dollars
in 1995, up from 76 billion dollars the year before. EU members enjoyed
a trade surplus of 6.25 billion dollars in 1995.
