Slowed by Bullet, Ex-Mayor Still Blunt on Issues of War, Peace
The assailant's bullet five years ago has taken its toll on Hitoshi
Motoshima. At 73, the former Nagasaki mayor's gait has slowed to a
shuffle, and his memory isn't quite what it was.
But the trait that sets him apart from just about every other
politician in Japan remains unchanged: He still says exactly what he
thinks, no matter how controversial.
In December 1988, as Emperor Hirohito lay dying, Motoshima broke
Japan's greatest taboo by declaring in public that he thought the
emperor bore some responsibility for World War II.
The emperor's responsibility _ and, indeed, Japan's _ remains a touchy
issue decades after the war, and Motoshima paid the price for raising
it. A year later a rightist who believed the emperor should never be
criticized shot the mayor in the back as he left City Hall.
Motoshima survived, but still feels the effects. ``When you get shot
you lose a kind of `oomph' in your body. I don't have as much energy.''
In April he ran for a fifth four-year term as mayor of Nagasaki _ one
of only two cities ever attacked with an atomic bomb.
A major U.N. conference on disarmament was held in the southern city
this past week, and Motoshima, a long-time campaigner for the abolition
of nuclear weapons, badly wanted to be the host. He also wanted to
preside over ceremonies Aug. 9 marking the 50th anniversary of the
bombing of Nagasaki.
But he lost to 49-year-old Itcho Ito, an energetic politician who
stressed economic issues, such as bringing more jobs to Nagasaki.
``They said peace won't buy you a meal,'' Motoshima said ruefully of
the voters.
Quiet retirement isn't for Hitoshi Motoshima, however. Ask him about
the resolution of ``remorse'' for World War II that was approved June 9
by Japan's parliament and his voice recovers its vibrant tenor.
``There's no real feeling in it. `Remorse' is just a feeling directed
toward yourself. Unless it includes an apology, we won't convince
Asians,'' he said.
Motoshima sharply criticizes conservative politicians who say Japan
already has effectively apologized by providing foreign aid to
countries like South Korea and China, which bore the brunt of Japan's
wartime aggression in the region.
``To colonize someone is to rob them of their pride, to discriminate
against them,'' he said. ``Do Japanese really understand that?''
To the United States, he offers both words of conciliation and a plea
not to forget what happened to his city. Motoshima was 23 and serving
in the army when the atomic bomb fell on Nagasaki and killed 70,000
people.
A month after the war ended he returned and saw the charred remains of
a city where homeless survivors were so hungry they ate grass.
``Japan must apologize for its war of aggression,'' Motoshima said _
using Japanese phrases that were taboo in the parliamentary debate over
the war resolution _ ``and we must apologize for Pearl Harbor. And then
I hope the American president can apologize for the atomic bombs.''
Motoshima recently called the atomic bombings one of the ``greatest
crimes of the 20th century'' along with the Holocaust. He says he
received nearly 50 protest letters from Americans.
Motoshima says he wanted Americans to see the bombing from the
perspective of a Nagasaki resident.
``What I want to say most is, `Take a look at what happened on the
ground,''' he said. ``If you are to look at war, that is your
responsibility.''
