Chinese President Meets With South African President 
Visiting Chinese President Jiang Zemin met with South African President
Thabo Mbeki here on Tuesday to discuss a range of regional and
international issues of common concern.
Both leaders agreed that cooperation between the two countries was
complementary in many fields and had great potentials for further
expansion.
This, they said, called for a high-level mechanism to guide and
coordinate such cooperation in various fields.
Jiang said the establishment of diplomatic ties in early 1998 paved the
way for cooperation between China and South Africa.
He said China and South Africa, both as developing countries, exerted
great influence in the Asian and African regions respectively and
shared a common goal of safeguarding the interests of developing
countries and pushing for the building-up of a just and reasonable new
international order.
Jiang said promoting and deepening Sino-South African cooperation
conformed with the long-term and fundamental interests of both
countries and would benefit world peace and development as well.
He stressed that China, which attached importance to the unique role
played by South Africa in regional and international affairs, expected
to develop long-term, stable and friendly cooperative ties with South
Africa.
Close cooperation between the two countries, he noted, was particularly
important at a time when chauvinism and power politics posed a threat
to world peace and security.
He lauded Mbeki's concept of "African Renaissance", saying this idea
was a follow-up and development of Pan-Africanism pursued by the old
generation of African leaders.
Jiang said the idea, which reflected the sense of responsibility
displayed by South Africa to strive for the revival of the African
continent, would contribute to peace and development in Africa.
Mbeki, extending his warm welcome to Jiang, said his visit, the first
by a Chinese head of state since the establishment of diplomatic
relations, was of great significance to the development of bilateral
ties.
He said South Africa and China could cooperate in many fields and such
cooperation was important for the development of South Africa.
Mbeki said there are no problems between South Africa and China which
enjoyed good cooperation. The only challenge for the two countries, he
said, was how to enhance bilateral ties to a higher level of vitality.
Cooperation between South Africa and China served as a good example for
other developing countries seeking inter-state cooperation, he said.
Mbeki stressed that South Africa and China should cooperate more
closely with other developing countries so as to exert positive
influence on the setting up of a new international economic order. He
reiterated South African support for China to join the World Trade
Organization at an earliest date possible.
Jiang arrived in South Africa on Monday for a four-day state visit, the
last leg of his five-nation tour which has brought him to Israel,
Palestine, Turkey and Greece. During his stopover in Alexandria, Egypt,
Jiang also met with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
