Jerusalem Debate Deepens As New Neighborhood Plan Announced
The Jerusalem municipality plans a new Jewish neighborhood in the
city's contested eastern sector, a deputy mayor said Wednesday.
The plan comes amid heated debate over the holy city sparked by last
month's announcement of plans to confiscate Palestinian land for a
different Jewish neighborhood and a congressional initiative to move
the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
Deputy Mayor Shmuel Meir said the decision to build the 400 new Jewish
homes was made in principle three years ago, but building was delayed
due to the contractor's refusal to pay city taxes.
The daily Haaretz said the contractor, Jack Nasser, bought the land
from Arabs and was demanding a discount from the city. Meir said he did
not know how much the contractor owed and it was not clear exactly how
much land was involved.
``Once he pays, the building will go ahead,'' Meir said.
The site lies between the Jewish neighborhood Armon Hanaziv and the
Arab village Jabel Mukaber, an area of Israeli-Arab tensions during the
six-year Palestinian uprising that ended in 1993.
Meir also said there was another proposal to confiscate 81 hectares
(200 acres) between the east Jerusalem neighborhoods Pisgat Zeev and
French Hill.
It was not clear if that would be part of a plan announced Tuesday by
Housing Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer to confiscate another 300 acres
(121 hectares) of Arab-owned land.
More confiscations could be disastrous for the peace talks with the
Palestinians after an uproar over last month's announcement of plans to
confiscate 140 acres (57 hectares) of partly Arab-owned land in east
Jerusalem.
The PLO and Arab states have called on the U.N. Security Council to
investigate those confiscations, and the militant Hamas movement called
for revenge attacks against Israelis.
Ir Shalem, an dovish Israeli group, issued a statement Wednesday
contradicting Ben-Eliezer's claim that 28 percent of the land whose
confiscation was announced in April was owned by Arabs and 62 percent
by Jews. The group said 80 percent of the land is owned by Palestinians
and only 17 percent by Jews.
Sheik Ahmed Baher of Hamas on Wednesday termed the confiscations ``a
challenge to the feelings of Muslims.''
Any building in east Jerusalem, by Palestinians and Israelis, is
contentious, since both sides lay claim to the area.
Israel captured east Jerusalem from Jordan in 1967 and annexed it into
its capital. The Palestinians claim the sector as a future capital.
Talks over the city's final status are to start by May 1996.
But the Palestinians contend Israel is trying to change the city's
status quo by confiscating Arab land and building Jewish housing.
Already, Jews slightly outnumber the 155,000 Arabs in the eastern
sector.
In an effort to ease tensions, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres on Tuesday
proposed confiscating land for building Arab neighborhoods.
Ahmed Tibi, an aide to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, rejected such
an offer Wednesday.
``We are against any confiscation of Arab land in east Jerusalem. We
don't believe any declaration about building for Arabs,'' Tibi told
Israel Radio.
Ir Shalem also rejected the idea, saying it ``indicates an inadequate
grasp of the complexity and the sensitivities of the property issues in
Jerusalem.''
The group's statement also said more than one third of the 70 square
kilometers of East Jerusalem have been expropriated since 1967, and 85
percent of that land was owned by Palestinians.
In a speech in Gaza marking the start of Muslims' four-day Feast of the
Sacrifice Wednesday, PLO chief Yasser Arafat repeated his aspiration to
see east Jerusalem capital of a Palestinian state.
``The Palestinian people have taken its destiny into their own hands
with faith and patience to build the nation stone by stone until the
victorious flags of Palestine are hoisted over the fences of
Jerusalem,'' Arafat said.
Also Wednesday, Jordanian Foreign Minister Abdul-Karim Kabariti was
quoted as telling a newspaper Israel's intended land confiscation could
damage bilateral relations.
``This will make the peace process vulnerable to doubts and mistrust
and will not help us complete the process on a popular level,''
Kabariti told the daily Davar. ga/dmc-dp
