Eight killed in Karachi amid Pakistan's independence celebrations 
A massacre of six people and the shooting of a navy sailor by a sniper
at a military parade overshadowed Independence Day festivities here
Monday, while Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto vowed to end the "terror."
As Bhutto spoke at a grand open-air ceremony outside the parliament in
Islamabad marking the 49th anniversary of the subcontinent's
independence from Britain, police said they found six bullet-riddled
bodies in an abandoned van, slumped over the seats, bound and
blindfolded.
The victims, shot in the head and chest, had probably been kidnapped in
various parts of the city and later dumped in the stolen vehicle in the
city's central district, police said. All were civilians.
Ejaz Afzal, a sailor leading a naval band at a military parade, was
killed by a sniper who shot from one of the nearby buildings, police
said.
An eighth man was killed by a sniper in the western neighbourhood of
Orangi, one of the city's most violence-torn areas, police said.
The naval band leader, identified as Ejaz Afzal, suddenly collapsed
bleeding during the parade in front of the mausoleum of Mohammad Ali
Jinnah, the founder of the nation, witnesses said.
Officials said three of those found dead in the van had been
identified. One of them, identified as Sooba Masih, had a note on his
body alleging he was a police informer, police said.
"My father was sleeping when boys carrying Kalashanikovs and pistols
entered the house and took him away in the van, although I begged them
for his life," police quoted Sooba Mashi's son as saying.
On August 3, 12 men were found dead and similarly bound in a minibus in
a different part of the city.
Police blamed all of the killings on the Mohajir Qaumi Movement (MQM),
Karachi's main opposition group, which broke off talks with the
government late last month after four unproductive rounds.
But the MQM, which represents Urdu-speaking immigrants from India who
settled here after the partition of the subcontinent in 1947, blames
clashes that have left more than 1,200 dead this year on government
discrimination against the immigrants.
Speaking in Islamabad, Bhutto said her government would continue its
efforts to find a political solution to the Karachi conflict and
resolved to "end the politics of terror and ethnicity."
"A group has taken up arms in the name of ethnicity," she said, and
claimed a "foreign hand" -- an apparent reference to India -- was
exploiting the situation.
