Hours after NATO launched a punitive air attack on a Bosnian Serb
target Friday night, the Serbs again violated a heavy-weapons exclusion
zone around Sarajevo by firing three mortar shells, a U.N. spokesman
said Saturday.
``We know the firing points,'' Maj. Rob Annink said, adding that U.N.
observers use special radar to spot the mortars, which were fired from
three positions in the Sarajevo suburb of Lukavica. He said at least
one of the shells had landed in Serb-held territory.
Late Friday, the Serbs handed back a T-55 tank, two armored personnel
carriers and one of the two vehicle-mounted antiaircraft guns they
seized from a collection center in the Sarajevo suburb of Ilidza
earlier in the day, said Annink, a spokesman for the U.N. military
force here. He said the other antiaircraft gun was returned Saturday
afternoon.
Two U.S. Air Force A-10 fighter jets destroyed a mobile antitank weapon
Friday evening in retaliation for the weapons seizure and an attack by
Serbian forces on a U.N. helicopter that had gone to search for them.
The rebel Serbs' press agency reported that no one had been injured in
the air strike.
U.N. officials have yet to explain how the Serbs managed to make off
with the tank and other weapons from the collection depot, which was
guarded by about 30 Ukrainian troops.
The commander of the U.N. Military Force in Bosnia, Lt. Gen. Sir
Michael Rose, warned after the air strike Friday night that he had
ordered only a pause in the NATO operation to enforce the weapons
exclusion zone, from which mortars are banned.
The general repeated a demand that all of the Serbs' heavy weapons be
removed from the exclusion zone or returned to the collection sites.
But there was no indication Saturday night that Rose was ready to order
new air attacks to retaliate for the mortar firing, which is at least
the second such incident in three days.
``The warning still stands,'' said Maj. Dacre Holloway, another U.N.
spokesman. But he said that Rose had not protested to the Bosnian Serbs
about the mortar incident.
``Each violation of the total exclusion zone will be assessed by
itself,'' Annink said.
The exclusion zone was created in February by a NATO ultimatum that
threatened air strikes against the Serbs unless they withdrew or
surrendered to U.N. collection sites all of the artillery, tanks and
other heavy weapons they used to bombard Sarajevo for 22 months.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
The defiant leader of the Bosnian Serbs, Radovan Karadzic, Saturday
decreed that all able-bodied adults in the self-styled Serbian republic
in Bosnia must report to work brigades, a report by the Serbs' press
agency said.
The report said the order was necessary to feed and house the
population on the Serb-held territory.
``The entire population capable of working should be covered by these
units, regardless of religion or nationality,'' the decree said.
On the military front, Annink confirmed that mostly Bosnian army forces
had advanced against the Serbs in an important supply corridor near the
northern Bosnian town of Brcko.
``They are pushing toward the supply road,'' he said, adding that the
Bosnian army had pulled to within a mile of the village of Brod.
The Serbian bunkers and trenches around the Brcko supply corridor had
been reported to be the most formidable in Bosnia.
Annink also said that the mostly Muslim Bosnian government forces had
captured significant territory southwest of the town of Vares. The
gains resulted from an offensive that Serbian commanders complained
about when they demanded this week that their forces be allowed to take
back weapons from the collection sections near Sarajevo.
In an attempt to reduce the likelihood of further Serbian demands for
weapons from the collection sites, the U.N. force made an unusual offer
to interpose peacekeepers between the Bosnian and rebel Serb forces
near Vares.
Annink said the Serbs had agreed to the plan, but that Bosnian army
commanders had rejected it.
``It would be the first operation of its kind outside of Sarajevo,''
Halloway said.
The Bosnian army advance around Vares is clearly aimed at weakening the
Serbs' positions in a swath of territory separating Sarajevo from the
town of Visoko. The NATO ultimatum required the Serbs to withdraw their
heavy weapons from the Visoko area, and Bosnian forces are trying to
exploit the situation, U.N. officials said.
The Visoko area has become more critical for the Bosnian army in recent
weeks because construction crews have graded land for an airstrip just
northwest of the town that either is or will soon be able to handle
large cargo aircraft that could be used for arms shipments.
