Clinton urges Bosnian, Croatian leaders to make peace with Serbs 
US President Bill Clinton called Tuesday on the leaders of Bosnia and
Croatia to "seize this moment" to end the long war with Serb
separatists and make peace in the Balkans.
Clinton told reporters ahead of talks with Bosnian President Alija
Izetbegovic and Croatian President Franjo Tudjman that he believed
prospects for ending the conflict in ex-Yugoslavia were good.
"We have to seize this moment," Clinton said. "It's clearly the best
chance in the last four years."
"The United States is committed to an honorable peace, which preserves
a unified state that respects the rights of all its citizens."
White House spokesman Michael McCurry said meanwhile that Tudjman
assured Clinton during the half-hour meeting that Zagreb would not use
force to retake Eastern Slavonia from Serbs as long as the peace
process is under way.
The United States is hosting peace talks opening next week at an Ohio
air base with the presidents of Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia.
Clinton, asked about the outlook for those discussions, said, "I would
rate the prospects as good."
Izetbegovic earlier spoke before the UN General Assembly, calling for
parity of Bosnian Serb and Bosnian government army forces, saying this
was the key to long-term stability in the Balkans.
The Bosnian leader praised the United States initiative to end the war
in the Balkans and said the upcoming negotiations were organized with
"the best faith and plenty of hope."
But Izetbegovic warned there was a tough road ahead and proposed that
any international financial assistance for reconstruction in the
Balkans be conditioned on removal of "tyrants" from positions of
authority in the region.
The remark was aimed at Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and
commander Ratko Mladic who have been indicted by a UN tribunal for war
crimes.
The US-brokered plan would keep Bosnia as a unified country but divide
it into Moslem-Croat and Serb entities. The Moslem-Croat federation
would get 51 percent of the territory and the Serbs 49 percent.
