Japan's long-term credit banks under increasing fire from investors
Already battered on the Tokyo bourse, Japan's three long-term credit
banks were dealt a fresh blow Tuesday by US credit rating agency
Moody's Investors Service Inc., which placed them under review.
Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. (IBJ), Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan
Ltd. (LTCB) and Nippon Credit Bank (NCB) were placed under review for
possible downgrade due to concerns about rising investor risk, the
agency said.
LTCB responded that the move by Moody's was "regrettable, as our
financial structure is improving steadily."
NCB said the Moody's action was "unacceptable" and prompted by "total
misunderstanding as there is no concern over management of our bank."
Moody's said the reviews were triggered by concerns about the impact of
deregulation of the Japanese financial markets on the activities of the
three banks. It also said the rising cost of their refinancing was
eroding their margins and weakening them.
IBJ, LTCB and NCB cannot accept deposits from individuals and rely on
debentures for refinancing, accounting for about 60 percent of their
funds.
A lower rating is not good for an establishment that does not have
access to savings, but the real impact of such a measure would be to
reinforce foreign suspicions of Japanese banks.
"These banks are primarily domestic borrowers. And the Japanese market
doesn't pay an aweful lot of attention to Moody's," said David
Threadgold, banking analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd (Japan).
Traditionally these banks march to the same tune in the market, but
more and more they have been clearly diverging. Since December 1996,
they have been offering different returns on their debentures.
The gap has been as much as 75 basis points in the rates offered by the
largest of the long-term credit banks, IBJ, and the smallest NCB.
NCB last Thursday raised the coupon on its February issue of five-year
debentures to 2.35 percent from 2.15 percent, even though the prime
rate of the three banks is 2.50 percent.
Such a narrow margin is barely sufficient to permit a profit and the
market is abuzz with recurring rumours about NCB's imminent collapse.
On the secondary market, NCB's paper is so discounted that it offers
yields in the order of five percent.
Bank issues have not been popular with Japanese investors for some time
and that sentiment is most noticeable among the long-term credit banks.
Over the past six months NCB has underperformed the broader Topix index
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange by 25 percent, IBJ by 26 percent and LTCB
by 42 percent.
IBJ, one of the largest banks in the world, has an "A1" long-term debt
rating and a "C" financial strength rating, without taking into account
the support of the financial authorities. LTCB is rated "Baa1" for
long-term debt and "D" for financial strength.
NCB carries the worst financial strength rating of "E" and hangs on to
the lowest investment-level rating of "Baa3," that by virtue of the
fact that it can call on support from the authorities, which was
reaffirmed last week by Finance Minister Hiroshi Mitsuzuka.
If its debt-rating is cut by one notch, the bank would find itself
classed as a speculative share, which would be a first among the 49
Japanese banks rated by Moody's.
