German Parties Pass Citizenship Law Reform
The German coalition government reached a compromise Thursday on a
modest reform of the country's 86-year-old bloodlines citizenship law,
Interior Minister Otto Schily said.
Under the reform, foreign children born in Germany will automatically
receive German citizenship and be allowed to remain dual-nationals
until aged 23 when they will have to choose a single nationality.
Currently, children born to foreigners in Germany are not allowed to
receive German citizenship even in the third or fourth generation,
unless they go through a complex and expensive naturalization process
and agree to give up their foreign passport.
The new law will also allow adult foreign residents in Germany to apply
for German citizenship after eight-year instead of the current 15-year
waiting period.
Applicants will be judged on three criteria: allegiance to the German
constitution, ability to speak German, and a crime-free record, said
Schily, adding that adult dual-nationality will be barred except for
foreigners living longer than 30 years in Germany or aged over 60.
The bill is backed by the Greens Party, the junior partner in
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's coalition. The compromise bill came
after the government ditched plans to offer dual-nationality to 7. 3
million foreigners living in Germany.
Anger in Germany over the planned dual-nationality option helped the
defeat of Schroeder's Social Democrats (SPD) in Hesse, where they had
been in coalition with the Greens.
Changing the citizenship law requires approval of parliament's upper
chamber, the Bundesrat, which represents Germany's 16 states.
Schroeder's SPD has lost control of the Bundesrat after being defeated
in Hesse state election.
The key to get the compromise bill passed was approval of the tiny Free
Democratic Party (FDP) serving within a coalition with SPD in
Rhineland-Palatinate state.
The FDP, strongly against offering adult foreigners dual- nationality,
had the final say on the extent of the reform in negotiations with
Schily in Mainz on Thursday.
Hesse's SPD-FDP government will now vote for the bill, which is
expected to be approved by both chambers before the summer
parliamentary recess.
