Berlusconi calls for autumn elections
Flush with victory in referendums that would have weakened his media
empire, former premier Silvio Berlusconi called Monday for general
elections before the autumn with an eye to returning to power.
Berlusconi also said he was willing to sell most of his media-based
Fininvest holding group, which includes three television stations and
an advertising agency.
Speaking to reporters a day after the politically charged referendums,
Berlusconi said in a statement that it was necessary "to return to
democratic normalcy by holding new elections between now and the
autumn."
Berlusconi said his Forza Italia party wanted to govern Italy again as
part of the Freedom Alliance, the rightwing grouping that took over
after elections in March 1994 but fell apart in December.
"I am part of this great project," Berlusconi said.
Berlusconi had campaigned vigorously against a referendum proposal that
would have banned any Italian from owning more than one television
station. Final results released Monday showed it was defeated by a vote
of 57 percent to 43 percent.
Berlusconi had said even before the referendum that he planned to sell
part of Fininvest whatever the outcome of the vote, but said he wanted
to do it on his own terms and insisted that being forced to do so would
be tantamount to expropriation.
In his statement Monday, Berlusconi denounced the referendums as an
attempt to destroy Fininvest, a firm he said had "ended the state
monopoly on televisiion and offered greater freedom of choice and
information."
Fininvest president Fedele Confalioneri said the group would decide
within a few weeks on the company to take over its television holdings.
"The choice will be made in the near future, within a few weeks," he
said.
"There's no race about it", he said, noting that negotiations on the
subject "continue and have never even been interrupted" with Australian
media magnate Rupert Murdoch and with a group of partners including
Saudi Prince Al Walid Bin Talal and German publisher Leo Kirch.
Berlusconi was elected in March of last year at the head of a rightwing
coalition but resigned in December when the alliance fell apart. Keen
on regaining power, he has been pushing for early elections ever since.
In April regional elections, Forza Italia party was beaten into second
place by the former communist Party of the Democratic Left. Following
that setback, Berlusconi acknowledged his Forza Italia party could no
longer push for June elections as it had been doing.
But the victory in the referendums Sunday boosts his political clout,
and Berlusconi cashed in on this by demanding new elections on Monday.
Following Berlusconi's resignation, Italy has been run by a government
of technocrats under Premier Lamberto Dini, who served as Berlusconi's
treasury minister.
The lira closed lower on news of the referendum results, dropping in
London to 1,185 to the German mark from 1,165 on Friday.
Dealers attributed the markets' reaction to fears of renewed political
instability as the referendum results could lead to early general
elections this autumn while the financial markets would prefer to see
Dini's transition government hold on until next spring.
In two other referendums affecting Fininvest, Italians voted against
limiting to one the number of commercials which can interrupt films,
plays and concerts broadcast on television, and against barring any
advertising firm from running ads on more than two stations.
The television referendums were organised after groups opposed to
Berlusconi's domination of Italian private television collected the
500,000 signatures necessary to force a vote on dismantling his empire.
Opponents argued vast media holdings gave Berlusconi an unfair
advantage that allowed him to win elections in March last year, and
that it created a conflict of interest between his roles as politician
and businessman.
