WASHINGTON - A United States even more introverted than during the past
two years is the most immediate result of the Republican capture of
Congress.
The midterm elections confirm the verdict of the 1992 presidential
election: success abroad, be it in Iraq or Haiti, is scarcely worth a
vote at the polls.
If President Bill Clinton plans to make up for his loss of control over
the domestic agenda by a flurry of activity overseas he will have his
work cut out.
With the possible exception of a second round with Saddam Hussein,
voters want to keep American involvement in other countries to a
minimum.
The same mood pervades Washington. It is not that the end to American
participation in implementing the arms embargo on Bosnia was
unexpected. But by casually leaking the details to the U.S. press last
week before briefing European ministers, the administration underlined
the priority it gives to domestic affairs.
Among Republicans there are signs of the same flip tone, with Senator
Robert Dole recommending U.S. troops leave Haiti by Thanksgiving next
week.
After a defeat as thumping as that suffered by President Clinton last
week it may be too much to expect anybody in the administration to care
about the ripples it is causing abroad. The Republicans also are high
on the euphoria of victory.
But the defeated supporters of the military regime in Haiti, still the
largest armed force in the country if the U.S. troops are removed, may
well take Dole's recommendation as a sign that they should keep their
weapons oiled.
The first real clash between Clinton and the new order in Congress is
expected to come over the GATT world trade talks.
In a letter to the President, the incoming chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Jesse Helms, asked him to delay a
vote on the pact until next year.
``If you will agree to this,'' says Helms, ``I can assure you that it
will have an exceedingly positive effect on my making certain that the
administration's position on all foreign policy matters during the
104th Congress will be considered fairly and fully.''
Threats do not come much blunter than this. But Clinton cannot really
afford to delay. The agreement, between 123 countries, took 12 years to
negotiate and any changes would kill the pact.
The White House may also consider it in its interests to push ahead
with GATT because it is an issue on which Republicans are so plainly
divided.
The new Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, favors it, while Dole, the
majority leader in the Senate, is on the fence. Nothing would raise
Clinton's spirits more than a serious Republican split.
The Republicans may also be divided on how far to try to change
Clinton's supportive policy on Russia.
President Boris Yeltsin has already said he fears U.S.-Russian
relations may deteriorate. The priority given to Russia by Strobe
Talbot, the Deputy Secretary of State, will be hard to maintain.
In the distribution of aid, Helms and the Republicans are likely to
push for more money for the non-Russian republics and less for the
Russians. They may also be more antagonistic to Moscow over territorial
disputes, notably over control of the Caspian oil fields.
At the center of Republican strategy is a determination not to let
Clinton win any victories that may strengthen his hand in the run-up to
the 1996 presidential election.
His successes in Haiti, North Korea and Northern Ireland in the past
few months did him little good in the polling booth but they would
probably have been impossible without a Democratic Congress.
Policy on Bosnia may not, at the end of the day, change that much. But
it will be more difficult for Clinton to fudge, by gestures of
solidarity with the Bosnians that change nothing. And if anything goes
wrong, Republicans will want him to carry the blame.
Nor is it just Republicans nipping at his heels that will cramp
Clinton's never very expansive style.
The extent of his electoral defeat is so great that he will be seen as
a lame duck president by the leaders of every country with which he
deals. He will find it difficult to make policy decisions look
convincing where they do not have bipartisan support.
If Clinton really had carried out a distinctively liberal foreign
policy in the past two years, as the Republicans alleged in the
election campaign, then he would now be in real trouble. But his
radicalism was always overstated both by himself and his opponents.
The Republicans may want to smother any signs of Clinton taking the
initiative in foreign affairs in the next two years, but there was
little sign of his doing so anyway.
