But Popeil allows himself to be upstaged only by his products. ``None
of the people in my infomercials are given a piece of the action,'' he
said.
He does seed audiences with proud owners from whom he can solicit
unscripted testimonials. Like many infomercial producers, he hires
people to fill seats at tapings, paying the going rate of $35 plus
lunch.
As an added bonus, this time around there's another sales medium that
seems tailor-made for Ron Popeil: home-shopping channels. He has an
exclusive arrangement with QVC, which buys his products in bulk, then
puts him on the air to sell them.
If he weren't so good at it, the folks at QVC probably wouldn't put up
with him. Backstage in QVC's suburban Philadelphia studio on a
late-November morning, Popeil showed how difficult a self-proclaimed
perfectionist can be.
After about 10 minutes live in front of the cameras with his
dehydrators and his Food Glamorizer, he blamed the producer for cutting
him short and not taking the all-important calls from satisfied
customers. He had spent three hours the previous night slicing and
dicing meat, fruit and vegetables, and he demanded a chance at a
payoff.
Before going on again, Popeil worked over the QVC host, Steve Bryant,
pressing for more time to ``go to the phones.'' Lucky for him, Bryant
is a big fan.
``Ron literally invented the business of direct-response TV sales,''
says Bryant, who recalls being persuaded to buy a Veg-O-Matic as a
young man. ``Ron paints in very definable brushstrokes, and every doubt
in the customer's mind is wiped away.''
Popeil is in the record books at QVC for selling $1.25 million worth of
pasta machines in 12 minutes, Bryant says -- which works out to about
10 a second. That's why he was disappointed about selling fewer than
23,000 dehydrators ($29.86, plus $6.22 for shipping and handling)
before 9 a.m.
The pasta maker represents a breakthrough for Popeil. It is the first
of his products to be sold in stores that takes a sizable bite of a
shopper's paycheck. Most marketers would be pleased to get the broad
distribution the Popeil Pasta Maker enjoys. Not Ron Popeil. He
describes dealing with retailers as more trouble than it's worth.
Barbara Alonge, a vice president of Macy's in New York, had to persuade
Popeil to supply his product to Macy's, and he agreed to do so only
through a middleman, the small-appliance distributor Salton/Maxim
Housewares.
``I personally hadn't heard of Ron Popeil,'' says Leon Dreimann, the
Australian-born chief executive of Salton/Maxim, whose first exposure
to Popeil was through an infomercial. ``When I saw him making chocolate
pasta on TV, that was it. My mouth started watering. I wanted that
machine there and then.''
On the other hand, when Richard Helfman, president of Creative
Technologies in Brooklyn, saw the Popeil machine, he wanted to sue then
and there. He soon did, asserting that Popeil was infringing his
company's patents.
Unlike some electric pasta makers that have been rushed onto the market
recently, Helfman says, his machines and Popeil's mix dough and shape
it into pasta in the same compartment, allowing users to monitor and
change the texture of the noodles while they're making them.
In September, a California judge ruled in Popeil's favor. Helfman
promises to appeal but doesn't sound too unhappy about Popeil's
televised invasion of what had been a small market.
Two years ago, Creative Technologies' pasta-machine sales amounted to
less than $7 million; in 1994, he said, they should reach $30 million.
``What Popeil did was really create some consumer awareness so that the
category really grew,'' Helfman says. ``He also hurt the category. He
created what I call a herd mentality where lots of manufacturers said,
Hey, the pasta machine is hot, and soon we had a dozen-plus brands.''
Although Popeil is not complaining about having one of the hottest
kitchen products in department stores this year, the patent episode
reinforced his preference for his favorite method of selling: direct to
the customer over the small screen.
When QVC put him back on the air at 11 that November morning, Bryant
let him go to the phones after several minutes. A woman named Pat
called in from Lawton, Okla., to profess her love for her Ronco Food
Dehydrator.
``Is there one thing you really like to do with it?'' Popeil inquired.
The caller shot back: ``Deer jerky.''
Ron Popeil grinned like a man who has found his calling.
