Russian Pairs Domiante Figure Skating 
Russian duos dominated the pairs figure skating at the 18th Olympic
Winter Games here Tuesday evening.
Oksana Kazakova and Artur Dmitriev led another Russian pair Elena
Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze to finish first and second in the
event, with 1.5 and 3.5 points respectively.
World champions Mandy Wotzel and Ingo Steuer of Germany came third at
4.0.
Kazakova and Dmitriev had an outstanding and expressive teamwork.
Skating to the music of Passacaglia composed by G.F. Haendel, a
flawless performance in Tuesday's free skating earned them one perfect
6.0, five 5.9s and two 5.8s in presentation from a panel of nine
judges, three 5.9s and five 5.8s in tactics. Only the applause and
cheers from the crowds brought them back to the reality from a world of
fantasy after finishing their artistic performance.
It is the second Olympic gold medal for Dmitriev, who won the event at
the Alvertville Games with another partner.
"It's a completely different medal. Maybe first medal was more
difficult for pressure, but this medal is more difficult for everything
and physical also."
Their coach Tamara Moskvina admitted that the pair gave a thrilling
performance in free skating. "They gave a great enjoyment by their
skating. The public liked them and I was very thrilled because it was
mature men and women skating with great passion and power."
"It was difficult to win the gold, (as they have) different
personalities, different styles," she added.
Berezhnaya and Sikharulidze, second after the short programme, jumped
to the second through free skating, in which they brought to the crowds
an emotional performance.
The Russian pair, gold medal winners at the Champions Series final last
year, made a slight fault in their last composition in free skating,
which cost them the gold.
Berezhnaya bursted to tears and wept when sitting in the corner in
which skaters anxiouly waited for their scores.
To win the silver had been an exceptional tough job for Berezhnaya, who
just recovered from brain surgery after nearly dying two years ago when
her former partner's blade sliced into her skull as they practiced
side-by-side camel spins during a practice session. She spent a month
in a Latvian hospital and had to re-learn how to talk.
China made a breakthrough in pairs figure skating with Shen Xue and
Zhao Hongbo finishing fifth. It is the first time that Chinese pair
entered into the top six in Olympic figure skating.
