US envoy Talbott told to drop US dairy export subsidies 
Australia urged the United States to drop plans to extend export
subsidies for US dairy farmers bidding to enter Australiand-dominated
markets in Asia, on Wednesday.
Trade Minister Bob McMullan told parliament that he had met visiting US
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and pressed home Australia's
concerns about the decision announced in Washington last week.
"I sought to register, and I believe I did firmly register, the extent
of potential damage to Australian dairy farmers and the fact that the
US actions are not even in the interests of US taxpayers or the
efficient US dairy farmers," McMullan told parliament after the
meeting.
He said Australia would prefer the United States not to subsidise its
exports and he presented Talbott with evidence that the United States
was in any case subsidising dairy exports beyond what was necessary to
make sales.
"With the nature of the dairy market and the growing demand for dairy
products in Asia, it is economic nonsense for the United States to be
acting in the way it is," McMullan said.
"It is also trade irresponsibility."
McMullan said that Talbott had agreed to convey his points to
Washington.
Talbott had also assured him that the United States would uphold the
spirit and substance of the Uruguay Round of free trade talks under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), now the World Trade
Organisation (WTO).
"I sought during the meeting to drive home and reinforce our concerns
so that they are heard in Washington," McMullan said.
"We are very concerned about the impact of this on Australian dairy
farmers, on Australian exports and on the Australian economy."
Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans also met Talbott on Wednesday
and agreed in principle to help in the dismantling of North Korea's
nuclear facilities.
Evans told Talbott that the Australian government was willing to be
involved in the Korean Energy Development Organisation (KEDO), the
US-organised consortium that will implement the main element of the
US-North Korean nuclear agreement of last October.
A spokeswoman for Evans later stressed that the agreement was in
principle and any detailed proposal for Australian involvement would
still need cabinet approval.
Under the Geneva framework agreement, North Korea is to scrap its
controversial nuclear programme, which includes a graphite-moderated
reactor and a nuclear reprocessing site at Yongbyon, 100 kilometres (63
miles) north of Pyongyang.
In exchange, KEDO is to build two safer, light-water reactors, which
will cost around four billion dollars, and the United States is to
arrange transitional oil supplies.
"The United States and Australia are in close consultation on this ...
Australia has enthusiastically supported the agreed framework," Talbott
said after the talks.
"We are hopeful Australia will participate in the KEDO, and of course
that issue was very much on the agenda at several of the talks we had
here today. The issue was discussed in some detail."
The light-water reactors provided for in the agreement are considered
safer, and would make it much harder for the North's communist
government to obtain nuclear weapons grade material.
