Copter crash could have been sabotage: Russian army chief
A Russian military helicopter that crashed over breakaway Chechnya, killing
14 people, could have blown up after terrorist sabotage, the Russian
general chief of staff said Tuesday.
Russian prosecutors confirmed that early evidence had shown the Mi-8
chopper with the deputy interior minister on board went down after a
strong explosion on board the craft.
Military officials further disclosed that a second Russian military
helicopter had been shelled by rebels in southern Chechnya on Monday
and forced down for an emergency landing.
ITAR-TASS reported that no federal troops had been killed in that
attack, and that a rebel group of 19 fighters who fired on the chopper
with light ammunition was wiped out.
Touching on the first crash Sunday, Chief of Staff General Anatoly
Kvashnin said the downing of the chopper over northern Chechnya could
have been a terrorist attack.
But he ruled out the possibility that Chechen rebels had shot it down
with a surface-to-air missile as they have claimed, suggesting instead
that an explosive device could have been planted in the helicopter
before take-off.
Russian officials have previously presented the crash in northeast
Chechnya as an accident, a hypothesis that would be far less
embarrassing than losing the helicopter to a rebel attack.
But that explanation appeared to be discarded by Tuesday.
"The investigation has evidence showing that the explosion occurred
inside the helicopter," deputy prosecutor general for Russia's southern
federative district Sergei Fridinsky told ITAR-TASS.
"But we cannot yet say what exploded, and why," Fridinsky said.
Some of the most senior Russian commanders of the Chechnya campaign
were killed, including Russian Deputy Interior Minister General Mikhail
Rudchenko, who oversees the southern Russian administrative region.
The dead also included his second-in-command, General Nikolai Goridov.
Lower-ranking officials aboard the Russian interior ministry helicopter
included colonels Yury Orlenko, Yury Stepanenko and Alexander
Trofimenko.
The crash occurred in the Nadterechny region, which fell under Russian
control at the very start of the latest crackdown in Chechnya launched
in October 1999.
It was seen as one of the few areas where federal troops could move
about in safety without fear of guerrilla ambushes that are a regular
occurrence elsewhere in the republic.
