State Firms Urged to Enhance Management 
Poor management has exacerbated the difficulties facing some state
enterprises, according to a top government official.
Vice-Minister of Finance Zhang Youcai said here today that excessive
emphasis has been put on the property right reform in recent years,
while the relaxed management in some state enterprises has been left
unattended.
"Some time-tested management methods are being discarded," said Zhang,
criticizing those firms which "persist in seeking tax breaks and profit
hand-over cuts, while making no effort to make the best of the autonomy
delegated to them by the central government."
The Ministry of Finance has adjusted its policies toward state firms
since the 1980s, to expand their financial resources. A new enterprise
accounting and auditing system introduced in July 1993 allows state
firms to get nearly 80 billion yuan a year in depreciation allowance
and draw another 86 billion yuan from accumulated profit gains.
In 1993 alone, the treasury wrote off about 100 billion yuan of state
firm property losses and debts, noted Zhang.
"These firms always find they have not enough money for technical
upgrading," said Zhang.
Moreover, fund abuse is serious in some localities, government
departments and firms which have carried out capital construction with
technical renovation funds, invested capital construction input in
non-production projects, or used technical development funds for
administrative purposes, according to the vice-minister.
Weakened internal management has led to increased production costs and
a drop in product quality, which in turn contributed to the soaring
inflation last year.
Official statistics show that state industrial firms' consumption of
raw materials and energy accounted for 77.5 percent of their production
cost. Moreover, only about 70 percent of their products met the state
quality requirements.
"It is imperative for state enterprises to switch their focus to
internal management," said Zhang. "Only when state firms' economic
returns have improved can they survive the possible shock incurred by
enterprise reform."
He said that the Ministry of Finance will strengthen supervision of
enterprises' management of production costs and capital fund usage.
The ministry will make an inspection of the implementation of the new
accounting and auditing system in state enterprises, helping them to
make the best use of their delegated autonomy.
