Los Angeles still coping with effects of 1992 riots
Five years after riots reduced parts of this city to burning rubble,
Los Angeles has yet to erase the scars left by the destruction whose
effects still mar the urban landscape.
Some 60.6 percent of the population believes similar violence will
"probably" erupt sometime in the next five years, according to a recent
poll by the University of Loyola-Marymount here.
On April 29, 1992, an all-white jury's acquittal of the white policemen
who were videotaped beating African-American driver Rodney King
inflamed racial passions, igniting three days of burning and looting.
The violence left at least 50 people dead, 2,300 injured and more than
1,100 buildings damaged or destroyed. Los Angeles' different ethnic
groups all came away with different explanations of the riots.
Many Koreans blamed African-Americans. African-Americans saw the
violence as a consequence of white America's racism. Latinos refer to
it as "los quemazones" -- the large flames -- while Koreans call it
sa-ee-gu: April 29.
The made-for-television movie "Riot," to be shown exactly five years
after the violence that followed the unpopular court verdict, showcases
the views of this city's different racial communities.
The film, to be shown on Tuesday, presents four directors' renditions
of the very different Asian, African-American, Latino and White
perspectives of the violence, which reduced parts of Los Angeles to
burning rubble.
The University of Loyola-Marymount reported that 36.4 percent of those
polled believe the 1992 riots made them more sensitive to the problems
faced by other races.
Only slightly fewer -- 28.7 percent -- say they felt more resentment
towards other communities. Nearly half of those polled, 49.3 percent,
said race relations had improved since the violence.
But 58.7 percent believe race relations are still poor and 47.8 percent
think things are getting worse.
Businesses in South Central, the neighborhood at the center of the
riots, have still not been rebuilt, dotting the economically deprived
area with vacant lots. All the city requires is that the owners put a
fence around them.
Some 200 properties have remained empty since the riots, according to a
study by The Los Angeles Times. And only one-third of all buildings
damaged or destroyed have been repaired or rebuilt.
"You see, it looks terrible," South Central resident Lucille Hooper
told the newspaper. "They haven't built anything. It looks dead, a
ghost town."
Neighborhood reconstruction had been entrusted to the private sector
and an organization dubbed "Rebuild L.A." (RLA) -- which had given
itself five years to achieve its goal.
RLA's recently released final report estimates private sector
investment to repair the damage at 389 million dollars. The US
government has spent some 900 million.
But that falls far short of RLA consultant McKinsey and Co's estimate
that it would cost six billion dollars to revitalize Los Angeles' poor
and damaged neighborhoods.
"Much needs to be done," RLA reported. "For example, many Korean
merchants never reopened their stores, and joblessness among blacks and
Latino teen-age males remains unacceptably high."
The riots left South Central with fewer liquor stores than before:
there had been 700. Two hundred were burned down and 165 never
re-opened.
