Canada to Bolster Economic Cooperation with Egypt
Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien told Egypt that his country has
the desire to bolster bilateral cooperation in economy, Egyptian
Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said on Wednesday.
During a meeting with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, Chretien said
Canada is ready to promote relations with Egypt in trade, vocational
training and technology transfer, Moussa told reporters after the
meeting.
The minister added that the talks also dealt with the latest
developments of the Middle East peace process and discussed ways of
breaking the deadlock in the Arab-Israeli peace negotiations.
Canada currently provides peacekeepers to the Middle East, including
180 soldiers stationed on the Israeli-occupied Syrian Golan Heights,
and hosts talks on Palestinian refugees as part of the multilateral
phase of the peace process.
Chretien arrived here Tuesday night for a three-day visit as part of a
regional tour, which also includes Jordan, the Palestinian self-rule
areas, Israel, Syria, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia.
Earlier Wednesday, Chretien also held talks with his Egyptian
counterpart Atef Obeid on enhancing bilateral economic and trade
cooperation.
The two countries have agreed to beef up their annual trade volume from
less than 200 million U.S. dollars at present to some 1 billion dollars
over the coming five years, Obeid told reporters after the talks.
He called on Canada to open up market to Egypt's textiles and
handicrafts in a bid to reach the target.
The two countries' trade volume stood at 176 million dollars in 1999.
Canada exports lumber, newsprint and high-technology products to Egypt.
Obeid and Chretien capped their talks with the signing of four
cooperation agreements in aid, technology transfer, environmental
protection, agriculture and infrastructural construction.
Egypt and Canada seek to boost economic and trade cooperation through
forging a free trade agreement and enhance Canada's contribution to
Egypt's development projects, especially in the field of
infrastructure, irrigation and technology transfer.
