Instead, cruise lines increasingly eliminate ports of call here and
there to add calls elsewhere to keep their itineraries fresh, or sail
to ports new to that cruise line, or even base ships in unexpected
places.
Thus this season Cunard ships will call at 14 ports new to Cunard,
including Da Nang, Vietnam; Muscat, Oman, and Lae, New Guinea.
Celebrity Horizon's Caribbean cruises this winter will call for the
first time at the secluded island of Mayreau in the Grenadines.
Carnival's Tropicale dropped Jamaica from its seven-day western
Caribbean itinerary, which begins on Friday, and substituted either New
Orleans or Tampa.
In December, the 400-passenger Regent Spirit will inaugurate the
industry's cruises from Cozumel, Mexico, focusing on underwater
exploration and expeditions to Mayan ruins. Regency also revamped the
departure schedule for its seven-day Caribbean cruises, which now leave
on Monday.
``It's more convenient for the growing number of honeymooners who marry
on Sunday,'' said Ann Burguieres, a Regency Cruises spokeswoman, ``and
it allows better air transportation in and out of the San Juan airport,
which is congested on weekends.''
A 12-night cruise on the Radisson Diamond this winter includes a visit
to the Dry Tortugas, west of the Florida Keys, and a transit of the
Panama Canal, which increasingly shows up on cruise itineraries.
Princess Cruises alone has scheduled 42 transcanal sailings aboard
seven ships through late April.
Southeast Asia continues to lure passengers, despite the vast distance
and fares that start at about $4,500 a person. Pearl Cruises will again
sail to Vietnam again this year, on cruises between Hong Kong and
Singapore, as well as to China. Princess Cruises, Holland America,
Regency and Cunard will also sail in the region, while ships of
Renaissance Cruises, Orient Lines, Seven Seas and Seabourn will feature
Asian cruises this fall and winter.
In other developments, Royal Caribbean, American Hawaiian and Marco
Polo are among a growing number of ships that have lowered the extra
charge for single travelers, in some cases by offering a single room at
no extra charge if the line fails to find a suitable cabin mate.
Royal Cruise Line is allowing passengers on select cruises to Europe,
Asia and Australia to upgrade to DC-8s chartered by MGM Grand Air, the
luxury airline, often for less than upgrades on other carriers.
From New York to Athens, for example, an upgrade to first class would
cost $2,390 one way on a regular airline used by Royal Cruise Line, but
$1,000 to $1,060 on MGM Grand.
While cruise fares will again average less than $200 a day per person,
the average on the top-of-the-line Seabourn Pride and Spirit is $831,
the industry's highest -- although the per diem drops to a mere $555
for those willing to commit to at least 45 days of sailing over a
three-year period and pay at least $59,000 per couple.
Daily rates on the Stella Solaris range from $195 to $400, but drop to
as low as $130 on the 23-day cruise to reposition the ship from Athens
to Fort Lauderdale, beginning Nov. 30.
New and reconditioned vessels also charge slightly more than average.
After the Constitution and the Independence both recently underwent $30
million renovations, their owner, American Hawaii Cruises, raised fares
about $100 for most categories on the ships' seven-day island cruises
this season. Now they will cost from $995 to $3,000 a person.
But anyone willing and able to spend serious money might consider any
of the world cruises being offered by Holland America, Costa Cruises
and Cunard. While it is possible to book segments on all such cruises,
fares for the full 85-to-109 day marathons range from a low of $21,975
on Holland America to $547,280 for a luxury apartment on the QE2.
