Greek shipping minister slams strike tactics 
Greek government hopes that prolonged strike action against its
austerity budget was beginning to wind down suffered a reversal on
Wednesday as farmers vowed to "march on Athens" while seamen decided to
press on with their action for two more days.
Farmers in central's Greece great plain of Thessaly, who have blockaded
the country's roads for three weeks promised to descend on the capital
Thursday "with our wives and children" to protest outside the
parliament building.
Their colleagues in Aigio in northern Greece, who are blocking the
Patras-Corinth motorway, said they would also join the Athens march,
which is to be staged to protest Greek belt-tightening measures which
will enable it to join the European economic and monetary union.
Minor incidents occurred in the region overnight as several angry lorry
drivers tried to force their way through the barricades.
Seamen meanwhile, who are protesting over proposals to erase tax breaks
in the draft 1997 budget, decided on a two-day extension of the action
they began on Monday in action which Greek Shipping Minister Stavros
Soumakis described as "unacceptable."
"The strikers' tactic of blocking all vessels, even those flying
foreign flags, serves neither their own interests nor those of the
Greek merchant navy," Soumakis said.
On Wednesday, the Maltese-registered "Brindisi," and the "Ionian Star"
flying the Italian flag, were prevented from docking for several hours
at the western port of Igoumenitsa. Both vessels are owned by Greek
companies.
Three seamen were arrested at the port following clashes between the
strikers and the police.
The Greek government has been battling for three weeks against the kind
of industrial and social protest which is becoming increasingly
widespread across Europe, as member states pursue financial rigour in a
bid to tailor their economies to the demands of monetary union.
Farmers, seamen and public sector workers have protested bitterly
against the Socialist government's tough austerity budget, the most
stringent for 15 years, designed to rein in Greek public finances to
prepare the country for the single currency by 2000 or 2001.
Parliament, where the socialists have a comfortable majority, is to
vote Saturday on the austerity budget.
The farmers, who represent 20 percent of the Greek work force, have
demanded talks with Prime Minister Costas Simitis, who has said he is
prepared to hold "open dialogue" with the farmers, but only on
condition that the barricades be lifted.
On Wednesday, Greek Agriculture Minister Stephanos Tzoumakas held out
an olive branch to the farmers by promising that they would get 10
billion drachmas (41 million dollars) from EU coffers as compensation
for producers hit by adverse weather and new regulations on cotton,
Greece's main crop.
"The (European) commission wants to help Greece," Tzoumakas said after
returning from talks with European Agriculture Commissioner Franz
Fischler in Brussels on the sidelines of an EU council of ministers
Monday and Tuesday.
In some parts of Greece, the strike movement continued to wind down
Wednesday, with most of the remaining roadblocks being removed.
But the seamen continued to hold firm, prompting incidents Wednesday
morning, in which lorry drivers tried to drive their trucks onto a
ferry in the port of Piraeus near Athens.
Some 600 lorries have been blocked in Piraeus, and dozens more in
Salonika. Pickets Tuesday prevented cruise ships from docking in Patras
and on the island of Corfu.
The stoppage has hit sailings all the country's other ports, including
those on the Greek islands.
