OAU Chief Not to Seek Fourth Term 
Secretary-General of the Organization of African Union (OAU) Salim
Ahmed Salim has declared that he will not seek a fourth term at the
Pan-African organization, the leading English Daily News reported on
Saturday.
Salim, a 59-year-old Tanzanian, said in an interview with the newspaper
that he plans to return to Tanzania to reawaken the founding president
Julius Kanbarage Nyerere's legacy of peace, unity and solidarity.
"I am not going to seek another term. Twelve years is a long time," he
said. "There are five other candidates for this post. What would happen
of course depends on what African leaders decide, but clearly for the
time being, we have very able candidates for the post from Namibia,
Cote d'Ivoire, Senegal, Swaziland and Guinea."
Salim has served as the OAU Secretary-General for three four- year
terms, almost a third of the lifetime of the 38-year-old Pan- African
organization.
"I have been very privileged. I've been one of those Africans who have
been extremely privileged to have held several positions of
responsibility both at the national level, the continental level and
the international level," he said.
Salim was appointed as the Chairman of the Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation
after Nyerere died of leukemia in l999 in London.
"I would like to work very closely with my colleagues at the
foundation, the government, political parties and everybody in this
country to see how that foundation can live up to and maintain the
legacy of Mwalimu," he added.
Salim said that Nyerere, who is still hailed and respected across the
continent, stood for the development of Tanzania and the African
continent as a whole.
Salim, who was appointed as ambassador from the age of 22, said he
would also like to share his experience with Tanzanians and Africans
after retirement.
"What I would really like to do, if circumstances allow, would be to go
from one African country to another to talk to the future leaders of
this continent, the young people of this continent," he said.
Salim has had a distinguished service in politics and diplomacy within
Tanzania and outside the country, serving as Prime Minister, minister
and ambassadors to Egypt, India, China and the United Nations where he
was appointed president of the United Nations General Assembly and
Security Council before serving the OAU chief.
