Diplomatic News Highlights Weekly (4)
Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan and other senior officials went
to the Japanese embassy in China Tuesday afternoon to extend, on behalf
of the Chinese government, deep condolences over the passing away of
former Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin, Premier Zhu Rongji and Vice- Premier
Qian Qichen have sent wreaths to mourn the former prime minister.
Xu Dunxin, member of the Standing Committee of the National People's
Congress (NPC), came to the Japanese Embassy in Beijing Wednesday
afternoon, on behalf of NPC Standing Committee Chairman Li Peng, to
mourn over the death of former Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi.
Xu, chairman of the China-Japan Friendship Group under the NPC and
former ambassador to Japan, also conveyed Li Peng's deep condolences to
the family of Obuchi.
Zhang Guoxiang, deputy secretary-general of the National Committee of
the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), on
behalf of CPPCC National Committee Chairman Li Ruihuan, went to the
Japanese Embassy in Beijing Wednesday to mourn over the death of former
Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi.
Chinese President Meets U.S. Guests
Chinese President Jiang Zemin said here Tuesday that the early granting
of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status by U.S. Congress to
China "is conducive to the healthy development of Sino- U.S. relations,
as well as to the growth of bilateral trade and the increase of U.S.
investment in China."
Jiang made the remarks in his meeting with Alexander Meigs Haig Jr.,
former U.S. secretary of state and now senior consultant of the
U.S.-based United Technologies Corporation (UTC), and George David,
UTC's chairman and chief executive officer, as well as other UTC
executives.
Chinese President on Education and Science
Chinese President Jiang Zemin said Wednesday that Chinese scientists
will spare no effort to make more contributions to the development of
science and technology in the world as well as to the progress of
mankind.
The Chinese government will also encourage its scientists to conduct
international exchanges and cooperation at various levels and in
different fields, he said during an interview with Ellis Rubinstein,
chief editor of the U.S.-based magazine "Science."
He said that China needs international cooperation in developing
science and technology, and the world also needs China in this regard.
NPC Chairman Meets Overseas Agronomists
Chairman of China's National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee
Li Peng met Wednesday with Dr. Norman Ernest Borlaug, senior consultant
to the International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement, and Dr.
Tien-Chich Tso, chairman of the board of the Institute of International
Development and Education in Agriculture and Life Science.
Li said that agriculture is an important factor critical to China's
realization of sustainable development, that is why China has attached
great importance to agricultural development.
The application of science and technology has contributed greatly to
the food production growth in China and the Chinese government has
increased funds in the agriculture sector, particularly in agricultural
research, he added.
