Belgian battler felled by injury
Dominique Van Roost's dream run at the Australian Open ended in agony
Wednesday when she was forced to give up her quarter final against Mary Joe
Fernandez with a pulled stomach muscle.
Grimacing with pain after leaping for a smash, the 23-year-old Belgian
walked disconsolately off court leaving the 14th seed from the United
States the winner leading 7-5, 4-0 after 66 minutes.
"I was feeling so much pain. I hate to stop but it was just too much
hurting for me today" said a pale Van Roost, who has been fighting the
abdominal muscle injury for a week.
Fernandez now meets womens' favourite Martina Hingis, the fourth seed
from Switzerland, in the semi finals.
Van Roost reached the last eight after toppling second seed Arantxa
Sanchez Vicario in the third round and following up with a deserved win
over off-form Chanda Rubin, the 15th seed from the United States, in
the fourth round.
She won the second and final set of her match with Rubin despite a
painful back muscle injury.
The Belgian's previous best Grand Slam performance was reaching the
fourth round at the Australian Open in 1992 when she was Dominique
Monami.
In her first quarter final, Van Roost scored with hard deep shots on
both sides, but could not break through the steady Fernandez.
Points went with service in the first set until the 11th game when a
Van Roos double fault gave Fernandez a chance as she led 30-15, and she
went on to snatch the set.
Van Roost said her pulled stomach muscle made serving and smashing
difficult and had started hurting in the first set.
She sought a trainer's help at the changeover at the start of the
second set, but played on in evident agony and fighting back tears.
"The last point I made when I did the smash, it was hurting so much
that I said its better to leave it like that," she said.
Van Roost was buoyed by what she described as "incredible support" from
Belgium with around 15 faxed messages a day since Saturday coming in
from people she knew.
Fernandez said she had noticed in the second game of the second set
that Van Roost was in difficulty and had "started hitting even more
aggressively than before and stayed ahead of her."
The American consoled the Belgian and set her laughing when she
apologised for the lob that led to Van Roost pulling out.
