Iraq escalation unlikely to disrupt oil supplies: experts by Nadim Kawash 
Tension in the Gulf sparked by a US missile attack on Iraq is unlikely
to disrupt oil supplies from the region although market fears have
already jolted prices up, experts said on Tuesday.
"I don't see any reason why there should be any supply shortage as the
events are far away," an Abu Dhabi-based oil analyst said.
"Oil prices have shot up only for psychological reasons, which is a
usual phenomenon in a jittery market. Fears that such events could
delay Iraqi oil exports are unjustified because Gulf states could make
up for the loss."
Iraq had been on the verge of resuming oil exports under an agreement
signed with the United Nations in May to sell two billion dollars of
crude every six months to buy food and medicine for its sanctions-hit
people.
But the UN said on Sunday it would postpone the implementation of the
agreement because of Baghdad's offensive against Kurdish strongholds in
northern Iraq, an Allied-patrolled "safe haven."
In an address on Tuesday, US President Bill Clinton also dismissed an
immediate resumption of Iraqi oil sales, saying the oil-for-food accord
could not go forward until Washington is satisfied with the
distribution of humanitarian supplies to all Iraqis including the
Kurds.
The delay to the agreement could deprive the world oil market of around
700,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Iraqi oil.
Oil analysts said they could not speculate on the date of the
resumption of Iraqi crude supplies in the wake of the US cruise missile
strike.
But they maintained any shortage in supplies could be offset by Saudi
Arabia and other Gulf Arab producers given their large spare capacity.
"I don't know what turn the events will take following the US attack
and defiant statements by (Iraqi President) Saddam Hussein," one expert
said.
"But I believe this is not a problem for the oil market so long as the
conflict is confined there... there is much oil elsewhere."
At talks in Vienna in June, oil ministers of the Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to allocate Iraq an additional
production quota of 800,000 bpd to implement its agreement with the UN
to export limited quantities of oil for the first time since it came
under an oil and trade embargo for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
A postponement of the agreement could cut off necessary supplies to a
thirsty market as demand is about to pick up in the last quarter and a
large part of supplies has been consumed by industrial countries
seeking to replenish their stocks after a prolonged winter.
But Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil producer and exporter, has around
two million bpd in spare capacity while Kuwait and the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) are also producing far below their capacity.
Saudi Arabia and the UAE hiked their production by more than three
million bpd during the 1991 Gulf war to make up for the disruption of
Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude exports. This helped bring down oil prices
after they shot up to 30 dollars.
News of the weekend Iraqi offensive against the main Kurdish city of
Arbil in northern Iraq sent oil prices above 21 dollars.
On Tuesday they climbed above 22 dollars, one of their highest levels
in many years, after the Pentagon announced the missile attack on
military targets in southern Iraq.
"Gulf Arab states have the capacity to meet demand in the fourth
quarter even if Iraq could not start exports," a Gulf oil official told
AFP.
"Of course we are benefiting from the increase in oil prices but we
will not allow prices to go up too high. We believe that we have an
obligation towards consumers because we share common interests.
"We are prepared for any possibility to ensure the stability of the oil
market. But I don't think there is an immediate threat to the market."
