A Government-In-Waiting Is Beginning To Surface
Slowly, cautiously, a government-in-waiting is surfacing here.
Evans Paul, mayor of this gritty, impoverished city by the sea, can now
speak openly with politicians, journalists, and friends, arriving
nattily dressed at City Hall and at luxury hotels to appear on
television to discuss Haiti's future.
But when night falls, he does not go home. Instead, with memories of
his arrest and beatings still in mind, he moves around the capital,
seeking refuge in the homes of those who promise shelter.
Joseph Fignole, a member of Parliament and a staunch supporter of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, chooses not to hide. But visits must
be carefully arranged.
On Saturday, after a meandering drive up pitted back streets, a
stranger was asked to stop and wait for an exchange of passwords before
a guide would show the way to the house that has several times
sheltered him from gunfire.
Samuel Madistin, the chairman of Parliament's human rights and justice
commission, left the country just one day before Guy Malary, the
justice minister, was assassinated last year. Seventeen days later,
Haitian soldiers circled Madistin's parents' home, riddled it with
automatic weapons fire, beat his 60-year-old father, and drove the
couple from the country.
Madistin returned to Haiti on April 28. The next day, he had to run
from an ambush on Carrefour Road.
``The problem is not when you leave,'' Madistin said. ``It is when you
come back.''
Now he lives at home for the first time in years. But he is unsettled.
``Nothing has changed so far,'' he said. ``We have seen what happened.
We have seen more killings. It is no time for confidence.''
Three years and more than 3,000 deaths after Aristide was driven from
the country, the civilian government here is struggling awkwardly into
the open beneath a protective shadow cast by American troops.
Though Aristide and many in his Cabinet are still safely ensconced in
Washington and Montreal, others guided by ambition and ideology are
working here for deep changes in a political system long driven by
brute force.
Meeting in cars, in embassy residences, in friends' houses, and,
occasionally, in public, they have spent months trying to cobble
together a transition to civilian rule and democratic principles. But
as they do so, they must fight well-founded fears for their own safety,
internal rivalries ignited by the promise of elections next year, and
prevalent doubts about their ability to govern an angry population
choked by a crippling economic embargo and embittered by years of
desperate poverty.
They also must still hide.
``It is like a game of cat and mouse,'' Madistin said.
``They look for us and we elude them,'' he said of the paramilitary
groups that have threatened and harassed political figures opposed to
the military's de facto government.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
It is a sinister game that affords both sides some natural advantages.
Since only two main streets lead through Port-au-Prince, spotters
working with the military can easily trace most movements. That has
forced the underground to use the back routes and sometimes travel in
disguise.
Children have proved an unexpected problem to some of those in hiding.
``They know my face,'' Paul said. But they do not understand the
politics of their country at this time.
Staying too long or getting too comfortable in one place can spell
trouble, too. ``If you stay, the usual things change,'' Paul said.
``Children cannot have their friends over. The house is quiet. People
notice.''
And on back streets, money buys betrayal.
Telephones, though preposterously unreliable, have worked to the
underground's advantage. Since Haiti's communication system is so
primitive, said Micha Gaillard, a socialist politician who serves as
chief of staff for the education minister, ``they can only tap about 25
lines at a time.'' He laughed, and added: ``I was too small for that
list.''
Still, Gaillard was hardly out of danger. He left home when someone
left a macabre message at his doorstep. One morning before dawn, as he
prepared a pot of coffee, he heard a spray of automatic weapons fire
just outside the family gate.
A man lay sprawled in blood on his driveway. The killing came after
dozens of threats. So Gaillard disappeared out a back door, taking his
wife and children into a place the Haitians call ``maronage,'' a life
of hiding.
Now he is back, relaxing over a computer chess game with a son and
working 15-hour days to revamp the government and shore up his
political party, Konakom.
For him, the changing tide brought by the arrival of American troops
presented an odd dichotomy. He opposed intervention. But now that the
troops are here, he cannot help celebrating.
``In my mind, I was against it,'' he said with a shake of his head.
``But in my heart, I was pleased. I've surprised myself, because when I
see a soldier on the street and he says Hi, I find myself saying Hi
back. It is a contradiction between my reason and my feelings.''
His relief, though, is obvious. ``Today, I receive you with a fan,'' he
said grandly, welcoming a visitor and flicking a switch on a portable
fan, though a stiff breeze off the sea was rustling the papers on his
desk. ``The Americans went to the local power station and they said,
`Give us more power!' So now we have electricity. It is great!''
That relief is not broadly shared yet. Many lawmakers remain in hiding
to some degree; others remain in exile. And thousands of others make up
a modern diaspora that began under the dictatorship of the Duvaliers
and has continued to the present.
``More than 300,000 people were displaced,'' said Ira Kurzban, a Miami
lawyer who represents the Aristide government. ``It is like a boot has
been lifted off their necks. But as long as the weapons are not
confiscated, there is still tremendous tension.''
At the government radio station, the fear has meant only a skeleton
staff to run things since American troops wrested control from the
military. Television service will take longer to restart.
Parliament, too, is faltering between two forces. When Fignole went
there for an emotional reunion with other legislators who support the
exiled government, he traveled with an American military escort. The
situation, everyone says, is still tenuous. Many other exiles and
members of the ``maronage'' have yet to reappear.
``None of us go through this without tears and hardship,'' Madistin
said. ``To have lived for three years of fear and brutality is not
nothing. It is hard for many people to go back home and get to work,
because they know exactly what's waiting for them if democracy is not
back.''
``Thursday, they threw a grenade,'' he said of an attack on
demonstrators calling for Aristide's return. ``It was a reminder. We
fight. But we also die.''
In this odd time between hope and history, many in hiding simply wait
and watch. History has not been kind here. And hope is thin gruel to a
country where the natural response to the question, ``How are you?'' is
the bleak Creole utterance, ``Papi mal'' -- ``Not worse.''
Paul, who is thought to harbor dreams of the presidency, deflects a
pointed question about his own future with a simple segue as though not
to tempt the fates.
``What is important to me,'' he said, ``is the right to conduct my
life, the right to live in my house, the right to invite a friend to a
restaurant, and the right to go to a meeting or go jogging if I want
to.''
But even with thousands of American troops on Haitian soil, the mayor
still looks over his shoulder as he drives through town. And he has yet
to go home.
