US actor Robert Blake arrested amidrest of former football star O.J. Simpson.
The actor was taken into custody in handcuffs from daughter'3/jome in
Los Angeles' San Fernando Valley and taken to police headquarters under
a flotilla of media helicopters broadcasting live pictures across the
United States.
"Detectives with the Los Angeles Police Department have arres:eL!
Robert Blake for the May 4, tting in the couple's car outside their
favorite restaurant.
Blake -- best known for his role as a streetwise detective in the 1970s
television drama "Beretta" -- has been under a cloud of suspicion since
the murder of his wife of just six monthe realized had slipped out his
waistband while he was eating.
He said that he returned to discover her lifeless body in the car.
No-one was ever arrested for the killing and Blake, a former child star
in the 1950s, has steadfastly denied 's attorney Harland Braun said he
had spoken with his client on the telephone to warn him of his
impending arrest and said the actor was "just shocked that they were
coming to arrest him."
"I told him to cooperate in every way, and he said, 'Of course I
will,'" Braun said.
Braun has said for months that he believed that police had developed a
fixatiOF 5n his famous client as the prime suspect in the murder probe.
Blake was taken to Los Angeles police headquarters to be booked as
prosecutors announced they would examine the evidence and announce
whether they would file charges against him on Monday.
attorney's office.
US national television news channels cleared their schedules from the
moment of Blake's arrest to devote hours of live coverage and
commentary to the event.
Commentators compared the circus to the 1994 arrest of former actor and
football icon Simpson for the murder of his ex-wife Nicole Brown.
Simpson was eventually acquitted of the death aftmk [ne of the highest
profile trials in history that was televised live around the world.
Los Angeles' beleaguered police chief Bernard Parks immediately called
an unusual 9.pm. press conference, sparking charges from Blake's
supporters that the much-publicized arrest so long had political
overtones.
Parks' bid to be reelected as police chief for a second s Angeles city
councilors on Wednesday.
"I can't believe he has been arrested. Some people will do anything to
have him arrested. He loved his baby and would not do anything to
jeapardise that," Blake's longtime friend John Solari told Fox News.
Bakley's murder captured widespread media attention and a wave of
revelations of her murky past and tenacious quest to marry a star.
Bakley was described by Blake's lawyers as a ruthless celebrity seeker
who had spent time in jail, had dabbled in drugs and had preyed on
lonely men through lo I";:earts scams.
The much-married Bakley initially claimed that her latest child, who
was born June 1, 2000, was fathered by Christian Brando, the son of
actor Marlon Brando, but DNA tests proved that Blake was the girl's
father.
