Chinese Farmer Devotes to Environmental Protection
In 1994, Qu Geping, chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee
under the National People's Congress, recommended a Chinese farmer to
the United Nation's Environment Program as a candidate for the World's
500 Best Environmental Award.
Gu Cheng, the 44-year-old farmer from Weihai in east China's Shandong
Province, has, since 1988, set up China's first nongovernmental
ecological design and researtch institute, first environmental
protection park, and first nongovernmental environmental protection
organization.
In the early 1980s, farmland in the village where Gu lived was taken
over for urban construction, so Gu shifted to the building industry and
soon struck it rich.
According to him, although he made quite a lot of money then, he often
felt lost because of the loss of the farmland. So, he began to
experiment with growing plants without soil on his balcony, regulating
the temperature using sunshine and the heat of a "kang" (a traditional
Chinese heated bed), and irrigating the plants with purified waste
water. As time went on, he became more and more interested in his work.
In 1988 he set up the first design and research institute of ecological
construction in China. In 1991, the institute began to experiment with
the construction of multi-story ecological buildings under the support
of the State Science and Technology Commission and the Ministry of
Construction. The purpose of the experiment was to increase the ability
to grow plants in multi-story structures. The area covered by the
multi-layer soilless beds is three times the basic outline of the
building. The results, which have won three patents, show that the
urban environment and utilization rate of soil resources can be greatly
improved, and water and ecological resources put to better use.
During the study and construction of ecological buildings, Gu contacted
many scholars and officials in the field of environmental protection
and his vision broadened, and his native feeling for farmland developed
into a greater affection for environmental protection.
In 1991 he raised 600,000 yuan and built an environmental protection
park with an area of about four ha. A nine-meter granite tower was
erected in the park, covered with pictures and messages calling
attention to environmental protection. Just before "World Environment
Day" in 1994, which fell on June 5, a stone tablet was erected in the
park, bearing the names of people who have made contributions to
environmental protection.
Gradually a group of environmental protectionists formed, with Gu as
their core, and in 1993, set up the Weihai Nongovernmental Green
Association. Gu was elected chairman.
The association has sponsored various activities dealing with
environmental protection, including holding exhibitions and seminars
and promoting environment-friendly products.
The association, with a membership of more than 4,000, led to the
founding of the Shandong Nongovernmental Green Association.
Weihai is one of China's cleanest cities. At present, greater numbers
of citizens are becoming involved in environmental protection,
according to the city's environmental protection officials.
