China threatens backers of human rights resolution
China lashed out Thursday at US support for a resolution condemning
Beijing's human rights record, while dissidents here hailed the
motion's narrow defeat as a moral victory.
The resolution -- also supported by the European Union and Japan -- was
defeated by just one vote Wednesday at the UN Human Rights Commission
in Geneva after Russia backed China at the last minute.
While warning all 20 backers of the resolution that their action could
damage bilateral trade and economic ties, the brunt of China's wrath
fell on the United States.
China deems it "absolutely unacceptable" that the United States took
the lead in supporting the resolution, which "grossly interfered in
China's internal affairs," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang
said.
"The deeds and actions by the US side are bound to have an adverse
impact on Sino-US dialogue on human rights and the cooperation between
the two countries in the relevent multilateral fronts," he said, urging
Washington to correct its "erroneous policies."
Twenty-one countries voted against the resolution which called on the
commission to criticize "violations of basic freedoms" in China. Twenty
voted for and the remaining 12 nations abstained.
Stressing that the development of trade and economic relations calls
for "sound political relations," Shen said ties with the motion's 19
other supporters could also suffer.
"Waging confrontation instead of conducting dialogue on the issue of
human rights with China is bound to have adverse effects on their
bilateral relations with China," he said.
Despite its victory, the narrowness of the vote was nevertheless
humiliating for China, which in previous years has succeeded in
preventing similar resolutions from even being discussed by lobbying
commission member countries.
Chinese dissidents said the motion's single-vote defeat could pressure
China into cleaning up its human rights record.
"It is a good thing that China could not avoid the debate and I think
that will help improve the human rights situation here," said Wang Dan,
a student leader during the 1989 pro-democracy movement.
"I am not disappointed that the vote was lost. I know that improving
human rights in China will take time," he added.
Liu Nianchun, founder of a free workers' union banned by the
authorities, also predicted the debate in Geneva would have results in
China. "But this kind of pressure is not strong enough to expect great
changes in China," he added.
Liu went on: "In recent years, the situation has improved a bit but, in
spite of everything, they are still sending people to reeducation camps
just because they have different opinions."
Human Rights in China, the New York-based group set up by exiled
Chinese dissidents, said Wednesday's vote "marked a small step for the
United Nations but a giant leap for human rights in China."
Human Rights Watch/Asia, also based in the United States, expressed
fears of reprisals against dissidents.
"To the extent that China portrays its one-vote defeat of the
resolution as a diplomatic triumph and proof of its ability to
withstand international censure, it may try to subject these activists
to harassment, detention and arrest," said a spokesman.
However, Wang Dan disagreed, arguing that the Chinese government, "if
it is intelligent, knows that it would be better to improve human
rights and I think there will be less persecution of dissidents than
before."
Liu Nianchun also did not expect troubles to increase. But he was
pessimistic about respect of the law. "The law says that the home of a
citizen can be put under surveillance by the police for a maximum of
three months, but in my case it is more than a year."
Human Rights in China welcomed indications that "many countries appear
to have lost patience with China over human rights." It highlighted how
Beijing's advantage at the commission has shrunk from 12 votes to four
and now one.
