Saudi Arabia to deport 46 more Indian child beggars 
Saudi Arabia, which repatriated 76 Indian child beggars last week, will
deport another 46 within seven days, newspapers said Friday.
The Indian Express quoted foreign ministry officials as saying six
girls and 40 boys without proper travel documents were being detained
in Jeddah after being caught begging.
"The Indian consulate in Jeddah has been arranging food, clothing and
medical care for these children," officials said.
The first group of children, aged between five and 15 and all girls
apart from one boy, were sent back to Bombay from Jeddah on January 13.
Nearly all the children had deformed limbs.
Police at Bombay's Sahar airport rounded up the children after some
were found walking around the runway.
Nearly all the repatriated children were from Murshidabad, a
Moslem-majority district in the coastal state of West Bengal.
The affair has led to a public debate in India, with claims that the
children were sent abroad as part of an illegal begging racket.
Sources said touts in West Bengal and Saudi Arabia preyed upon Indian
Moslem pilgrims in Saudi Arabia, offering them money to use their
children for begging during the annual haj pilgrimage and the holy
month of Ramadan.
"These racketeers lure impoverished families into parting with their
children," a source told the Times of India daily. "The children
usually reap a rich harvest and the money goes to the racketeers."
An unidentified ministry official was quoting as saying: "The external
affairs ministry is examining as to how it can strengthen the
immigration check without causing inconvenience to those going for
pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia."
Villagers in West Bengal said illegal begging rings had been operating
in Saudi Arabia for 20 years.
A villager said on condition of anonymity that he had invested 3,000
dollars in the racket to pay poor parents and organise forged
passports, visas and buy plane tickets.
He said his investment doubled in three months after the children
started seeking alms.
