Under political pressure to separate himself from his media empire,
former Premier Silvio Berlusconi said Thursday he has sold part of his
TV and advertising unit to a Saudi prince and publishing groups from
Germany and South Africa.
At least for now, the mogul is keeping the controlling share, but he
announced further sales of stakes aimed at ultimately leaving his
family with a 35-40 percent slice.
The dlrs-1.12 billion deal will help his Fininvest business world,
whose debt stood 3.2 trillion lire (dlrs 2 billion) last year.
Berlusconi told a news conference it was a ''good financial deal.''
But whether the deal will quiet his critics as Italian political
leaders gear up for parliamentary elections, possibly later this year,
remained to be seen.
Asked if the deal didn't really resolve the conflict-of-interest issue,
Berlusconi replied: ``Even a person with 1 percent'' (in stakes) would
be attacked politically in Italy.
``Conflict of interest is an invention of our political opponents,''
said Berlusconi, who leads the conservative Forza Italia party.
``Right now the conflict does not exist since I'm not premier. If I am
given the premiership again, after new elections, I would freeze my
remaining (media) assets and put them under control of other (Mediaset)
partners,'' Berlusconi said.
During his premiership, Berlusconi had made similar promises, but
nothing came of them by the time he quit as premier in December, in
part because of the conflict-of-interest question.
Now, after months of negotiations, the stake will be divided this way:
Germany's Kirch Group 12.5 percent, Johann Rupert's Richemont Group of
South Africa 7.1 percent and Saudi Prince al-Waleed bin Talal Abdulaziz
al-Saud, a nephew of King Fahd, 5.1 percent for a total of 24.7
percent.
After a second planned capital increase, Berlusconi said, the three
buyers' shares would be diluted to 10, 5.7 and 4.1 percent
respectively, for just under 20 percent.
Among potential buyers of stakes are banks, including Fininvest
creditors.
The first two sales should total about dlrs 2.2 billion, Berlusconi
said.
A third sale is planned, for stock market investors, next year.
Demands that Berlusconi sell off his media empire, which also includes
a newsweekly and film companies, began after the entrepreneur jumped
into politics less than two years ago. Among the most insistent critics
were his leftist opponents, including former Communists.
``I don't know the details but if you're talking about the sale of 20
or 25 percent of Mediaset, certainly, it doesn't seem to me that the
antitrust problem is headed for a solution,'' said the government's
media watchdog Giuseppe Santaniello.
Mediaset includes Italy's three main private TV networks, Rete Quattro,
Canale Cinque and Italia Uno.
Earlier this year Morgan Stanley put Mediaset's value at about 7.5
trillion lire (dlrs 4.6 billion).
Earlier on Thursday, News Corp. Ltd. chairman and chief executive
Rupert Murdoch confirmed that he wasn't part of the deal.
He has held talks with Berlusconi, who said Thursday that Murdoch could
still buy a stake.
Murdoch had insisted on a controlling stake, according to news reports,
and Berlusconi said Thursday that he thought that would go against
Italian national interests. What's more, he said, the potential tax
liability of such a deal was too great.
Further convincing him not to sell to Murdoch was the defeat last month
of an Italian voter referendum that called for him to sell off part of
his TV empire.
Even if he succeeds in stopping the conflict-of-interest critics,
Berlusconi still faces another challenge. Prosecutors are seeking the
indictment of him and other Fininvest executives for allegedly paying
bribes to tax inspectors.
