Qian: Jiang's Visit to U.S. Achieves Significant Results 
Chinese President Jiang Zemin's visit to the United States has achieved
"significant results," Chinese Vice Premier and Foreign Minister Qian
Qichen said today.
Speaking at a press conference following the meeting between Jiang and
U.S. President Bill Clinton, Qian said that Jiang's current visit "will
be a complete success."
"Through this visit, both sides have affirmed that to develop a normal
stable and healthy relationship between the two countries is not only
in the fundamental interests of the two countries, but also conducive
to world peace and stability, " Qian said.
A joint statement issued earlier today said that the United States and
China agreed to build a "constructive strategic partnership."
The partnership is "a very important outcome in the joint statement,"
Qian said.
The U.S. side proposed a strategic partnership, Qian said, adding China
suggested a constructive partnership and the two sides have a long
discussion on this issue. "So in the end, we agreed on the building of
a constructive strategic partnership."
The two sides also agreed to set up "direct communication links"
between the two heads of state, between Beijing and Washington,
according to the joint statement.
However, Qian noted that such a partnership is "a target" and has not
been a reality at this moment, adding such a relationship does not
necessarily mean the two countries are "100 percent good friends and
allies that are free from any contradictions."
Referring to the issue of Taiwan, Qian said that it is the "single most
important and sensitive central issue" in Sino-U.S. relations.
"To abide by the principles enshrined in the three Sino-U.S. joint
communiques and appropriately handle the question of Taiwan held key to
the healthy and steady development of the Sino-U.S. relationship," Qian
said.
"The U.S. side reiterates that it adheres to the one-China policy and
commits itself to following the principles enshrined in the three
Sino-U.S. joint communiques in handling the question of Taiwan," Qian
said.
The two presidents have reached a series of agreements on strengthening
cooperation in maintaining world peace and promoting global
development. They also agreed to expand cooperation in economy and
trade, environment protection, law enforcement and science and
technology.
Jiang, who started his nine-day state visit on October 26, was welcomed
with a 21-gun salute on the South Lawn of the White House in the
morning just prior to his fifth summit with Clinton.
The first such visit the U.S. by a Chinese head of state in 12 years
will also take Jiang to Philadelphia on Friday.
