Thais face another week of political upheaval 
The collapse of Thailand's government this weekend came as a relief to
many Thais despite the nation's squabbling political parties being in
disarray ahead of the November 17 general elections.
The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) index reflected the early euphoria
of investors when it shot up 4.7 percent Monday morning -- which some
analysts attributed to expectations that the Democrat Party would
return to power.
Outgoing Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa's six-party coalition was
hard hit by his decision to dissolve parliament and call fresh
elections rather than hand over to another government politician.
The premier's Chart Thai party was in turmoil, its election prospects
bleak as it faced the possibility of multiple defections and even a
move to unseat the party leader, who was accused of stabbing party
colleagues in the back.
Other government parties which had misjudged the prime minister's
intentions were also in trouble, scrambling to put together new
alliances that they hoped would bring them back to power.
Many commentators hoped that the elections would promote political
reform and an eventual end to the money politics which have plagued
Thailand.
But the more cynical said there was little hope of immediate change.
"The botttom line ... is that this general election will be held under
the same ground rules with the same players and their antics," Pichai
Chuensuksawadi commented in the Bangkok Post Monday.
Pichai forecast short-term gain in the provinces: "With less than 30
days to campaign, provincial economies will be temporarily rejuvenated
with 100- and 500-baht (four- and 20-dollar) notes pouring out of
candidates' coffers."
Academics and financial analysts estimated that 15-20 billion baht
would be handed out in the election campaign, leading a Thai Farmers
Bank researcher to warn that the money would fuel inflation.
"Because the election will be held in November, before the end of the
year, it will push inflation higher than the 5.8 percent the Thai
Farmers Bank had expected for the year," the researcher said.
The high-profile leader of the Palang Dharma Party (PDP), Thaksin
Shinawatra, said political reform was his top priority as he announced
Sunday he would not be a candidate on the November 17 ballot.
Thaksin, a multimillionaire businessman before he entered politics less
than two years ago, said he would stay on as party leader at the
insistence of the PDP executive.
The New Aspiration Party (NAP), second largest in the outgoing
coalition, was reported making approaches to the Democrats who, under
former premier Chuan Leekpai, were considered early favorites to win
the most seats and thus the right to form a coalition government.
The Democrats were much in demand since Saturday, courted both by
ex-politicians who wanted to return to the game as part of what they
thought could be a winning team and by MPs disenchanted with their own
allies' actions.
The small Seritham party, with the Democrats in opposition, was said to
be considering a merger.
But it was Chart Pattana, the second-largest opposition party, which
was counting on the biggest gains.
Party leader Chatichai Choonhavan, a former prime minister, was mooted
to be a possible successor to Banharn last week after the premier
emerged battered from a censure debate in parliament.
Chatichai meanwhile has ruled out a re-merger with Chart Thai --
rumored before the debate -- feeling his party can only gain from the
current turmoil, and Chart Thai lose.
NAP leader Chaowalit Yongchaiyudh, who was instrumental in bringing the
Banharn down, put a brave face on the loss of the premiership he had
hoped to extract from the outgoing premier.
But analysts felt the events were a serious embarrassment to Chaowalit
and suggested NAP members were wondering whether he was the right
person to lead the party into the next election.
