New governor named for Afghan province
Afghanistan's interim administration on Wednesday named Taj Mohammad Wardag
as the new governor of eastern Paktia province, despite threats of violence
from a local warlord who wants the job.
Sultan Ahmad Baheen, head of the government-run Bakhter Information
agency, told AFP that interim leader Hamid Karzai had personally
appointed Wardag, a former governor of northeastern Badakhshan
province.
"Mr. Karzai has approved Taj Mohammad Wardag as the governor," Baheen
said.
Tribal commander Padsha Khan earlier Wednesday warned he would wage war
if anyone else was appointed governor, and repeated allegations that
his rivals were working with al-Qaeda terrorists loyal to Osama bin
Laden.
"If somebody else is appointed, I will go back to Paktia," Khan told
AFP.
"The people, tribes, nation and I do not accept the new governor if he
is appointed. We will fight there till the end of al-Qaeda," he said.
Karzai had earlier appointed Khan, but withdrew his support for the
Pashtun tribal strongman after he tried to take up his post by force
two weeks ago, leading to street fighting with a rival warlord.
The row over who should control Paktia has underlined the fragility of
the UN-backed interim cabinet as it tries to assert its control over
the countryside, where ethnic and tribal warlords still hold sway.
After difficult and complicated talks, Kaay but the new governor had
not yet gone to Gardez, the capital of Paktia.
The Afghan Islamic Press news agency earlier Wednesday reported that
the local shura, or council of tribal elders, in Paktia had rejected
Khan and nominated Wardag for governor.
"We have said that we will accept any nomination by the central
government but not Padsha Khan," the Pakistan-based agency quoted a
shura spokesman as saying.
Khan warned that any backtracking by Karzai over his appointment would
lead to further trouble in the war-ravaged country, if provinces were
able to challenge or ignore decrees by the interim administration.
"It would reflect his (Karzai's) weakness. Similar violations would
start all over the country, that would be too difficult for him to
control," he said.
One of Khan's brothers, Amanullah Khan Zadran, 40, has been appointed
border affairs minister, while another, Kamal Khan, 32, was named
governor of Khost province, which neighbours Paktia.
Khan claimed his opponents and some shura members belong to the Taliban
and bin Laden's al-Qaeda network, which he has previously said was
"regrouping" in the eastern mountains.
Khost was the scene of a CIA missile strike against alleged al-Qaeda
leaders last week, and Paktia was one of the provinces most heavily
bombed by the United States in its pursuit of al-Qaeda fighters.
