Armed men capture Air France airliner, diplomats 
Armed men seized a French airliner with more than 280 people including
two French diplomats on board at Algiers airport Saturday, Air France
and French officials said.
Eleven passengers, mostly women, were freed by the hijackers, an Air
France spokesman in Paris said. There remained 260 passengers, 12 crew
and a mechanic on board the aircraft.
In Paris reliable sources said two French diplomats were on board the
plane.
Reliable sources here said three gunmen had boarded the Air France
Airbus A300 in what appeared to be a hostage-taking. The plane was
parked at the end of a runway at Algiers' Houari Boumediene Airport.
A total of 271 passengers, mostly Algerians, were signed up to board
the Paris-bound flight, which was to have taken off at 11:15 a.m. (1015
GMT), the airline said. Air France officials said four armed men had
blocked the plane's take-off.
The identity of the armed men, their possible membership of an
organized group or the type of weapons possibly in their possession
were not immediately known, nor were their motives.
Air France flight AF 8969 was to have landed at Paris Orly at 1:25 p.m.
(1225 GMT). The airline is often used by French diplomats and embassy
staff to travel from Algiers to Paris.
The French foreign ministry said its crisis center was monitoring the
incident.
"The French embassy is in contact with Algerian authorities and has a
representative at the airport," a spokesman said, adding that he had
"no other information."
Informed sources in Paris said Algerian interior and transport
ministries officials were also at the airport.
Algeria has been rocked for the past two years by an Islamic
fundamentalist guerrilla war which has often targeted foreigners and
foreign companies.
An Algerian national hijacked an Air France jetliner between Paris and
Algiers on August 23, 1989 after he was expelled by France.
He was overpowered after the plane landed in Algiers.
All 102 passengers and 13 crew were safe.
