Italian upsets top-seed Roddick in Delray Beach final
Davide Sanguinetti of Italy won his second career ATP title on Sunday,
upsetting top-seed American Andy Roddick 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 at the
400,000-dollar ATP International Championships.
The fifth-seeded Sanguinetti turned the tables on Roddick this week
after losing to the American last week in San Jose.
"It feels good," 60th-ranked Sanguinetti said after the one hour,
52-minute match. "I don't want to wake up. I want to keep dreaming.
Everything is perfect, better than I expected."
The victory gives Sanguinetti, 29, special status on the tour as he is
the only player to win two titles this season.
"I'm happy I won this tournament," he said. "I won because I was ready
to win."
Sanguinetti won his first ATP title at the Milan tournament last month.
It followed losses in three prior finals. He is 15-4 on the year, also
reaching the semi-finals of the Copenhagen tournament in February.
The Italian frustrated Roddick by hitting balls flat and low and using
a variety of shots.
His ability to mix shots clearly frustrated Roddick, who was playing
his fourth match in three days and battling a virus.
Roddick has had a heavy schedule the past few weeks. He won the Memphis
title two weeks ago and lost to Andre Agassi in the San Jose
semi-finals last week.
"It's a combination of things, like playing too many back-to-back
matches, being fatigued. I caught a little cold during the week," said
Roddick, who won his previous four final dates on the tour.
"I was trying to gut it out but I came up a bit short. It just wasn't
enough."
After saving a break point on his serve in the seventh game of the
second set, Roddick picked up the pace.
But in the third set, Sanguinetti saved two break points on his serve
in the fourth game.
He went on to break Roddick's serve in the very next game when the
American double-faulted on Sanguinetti's fourth break-point opportunity
in the fifth game.
Roddick said he would talk to his doctor before deciding whether to
take part in next week's tournament at Indian Wells.
