Mark Taylor vows to ride out crisis
Australian cricket captain Mark Taylor has vowed to remain at the top of
his side's batting order in Sunday's crucial one-day international match
against the West Indies here, despite the greatest form crisis of his
career.
Taylor, 32, a left-hander who has faced the new ball in 76 Tests and
107 international limited-overs clashes, Saturday dispelled thoughts he
might drop down the order in the Carlton and United Series match to
give himself a chance to recapture his best touch.
"I have always been an opener, and that's where I have played my best
cricket," he said after an extensive nets session at the WACA Ground in
preparation for one of Australia's most important matches of the
summer.
"I don't think now is the time to move down the order."
Australia must beat the high-flying West Indies to retain any hope of
qualifying for the best-of-three finals of the lucrative contest, worth
100,000 Australian dollars (78,000 US) to the winner.
The West Indies (8 points) are current leaders in the qualifying
rounds, followed by Pakistan (6) and Australia (4). All countries have
played six games.
Taylor's form slump has coincided with Australia's abysmal recent
record in the one-day arena.
The home nation have lost their past four limited-overs engagements,
and crashed in 10 of their past 12.
Taylor has made only 117 runs at an average of 19.50 in six one-day
outings this season, an aggregate of 139 at an average of 23.17 in
three Tests and has one half century in his past 22 first-class
innings.
Despite that atrocious record, Taylor remains cheerful and, unlike many
international sporting figures in the doldrums, still finds time -- and
a smile -- for the media.
"The thing is I feel good," Taylor said. "I have felt in reasonable
nick most of the season.
"Other times, when I have had bad form, I have felt terrible at the
crease, but now I don't feel that bad.
"It's just a matter of getting a start, and getting through the 20s.
"I don't really think Mark Taylor has a great problem. Things can turn
around very quickly."
He was encouraged, he said, by the WACA Ground's characteristic of
helping batsmen make shots.
The West Indies, riding on a seven-wins-in-a-row crest, will do
everything they can to prolong Taylor's discomfort, hoping they can
hold their clear psychological advantage until the vital fourth Test of
the five match series for the Frank Worrell Trophy.
Australia lead 2-1 after winning in Brisbane and Sydney before the
tourists rebounded in Melbourne.
The fourth Test starts in Adelaide Saturday fortnight, with the final
match starting a week later.
West Indies captain Courtney Walsh declined to say Saturday whether the
team would recall match-winning spearhead Curtly Ambrose in an effort
to keep Taylor on the back foot.
There is a strong suspicion Ambrose, who has had a hamstring problem,
will be risked in the hope he can help to prevent Taylor refinding his
form and ensuring Australia will be eliminated from the one-day
competition.
If Australia fail to make the finals of the triangular competition, it
will be the first time in 17 years they have suffered this humiliation.
Teams from:
Australia: Mark Taylor (capt), Ian Healy (vice-capt), Michael Bevan,
Greg Blewett, Andrew Bichel, Stuart Law, Glenn McGrath, Tom Moody,
Anthony Stuart, Shane Warne, Mark Waugh, Steve Waugh (12th man to be
named).
West Indies: Courtney Walsh (capt), Brian Lara (v-capt), Jimmy Adams,
Curtly Ambrose, Kenny Benjamin, Ian Bishop, Sherwin Campbell, Adrian
Griffith, Robert Samuels, Shivnarine Chanderpaul, Roland Holder, Carl
Hooper,Junior Murray, Nixon McLean, Patterson Thompson (to be
finalised).
