Arteaga named interim Ecuador president as crisis ends
Ecuador's three-day political crisis came to an apparent close Sunday
when Congress appointed Rosalia Arteaga, vice president under ousted
leader Abdala Bucaram, the nation's first woman president.
Arteaga, a 40-year-old lawyer and educator, was made interim president,
winning the votes of 45 of 46 legislators present at the unicameral
Congress in a pre-dawn special session at 4:00 a.m. (0900 GMT).
Congress selected her for a "strictly limited period," leaving open the
possibility of designating another interim leader to serve until August
1998, when new elections would be held.
Despite the move, Congress must vote again to approve a leader to rule
until August 1998 with at least two-thirds of the 82-member Congress,
or 55 votes. Members of Bucaram's party were absent from the late-night
session.
Another special session of the legislature was set for Tuesday. If
lawmakers choose someone other than Arteaga, she would return to the
vice presidency after a mere three days as president. It remained
unclear whether Arteaga, Alarcon or someone else would be able to get a
majority.
"Ecuador deserves a new opportunity," said a tearful Arteaga after
learning of her appointment. "An enormous responsibility has fallen on
my shoulders. I hope I can live up to this challenge and will do my
best for our country."
Her appointment ends three days of turmoil after Bucaram was stripped
of the presidency Thursday on grounds that he was mentally unfit.
Initially, Congress had named its own leader, Fabian Alarcon, to
replace Bucaram, who had refused to step down. That step touched off a
three-way power struggle.
The crisis ended after Bucaram and Alarcon both conceded the presidency
as military chiefs sought to end the chaos.
Bucaram, in a television address from his home town of Guayaquil,
acknowledged for the first time that he was stripped of the presidency
by Congress, but continued to call the move a coup d'etat.
After a meeting of leaders of Congress and the military, Alarcon asked
lawmakers to cancel his appointment to the presidency, allowing him to
return to his post as president of Congress.
The country's armed forces chiefs moved to end the crisis Saturday by
saying they would no longer recognize Bucaram or his declaration of a
state of emergency, his last move before he fled the presidential
palace.
The military, which has ruled Ecuador in the past, had taken pains to
maintain its neutrality during the crisis. But that has not kept people
from looking to the armed forces for leadership.
Arteaga praised the armed forces for its actions, saying it should be
"an example for Latin America."
Observers said Arteaga had been the choice of the military and
prominent civic leaders to become president.
A group of prominent Ecuadorans, including former president Carlos
Julio Arosemena and former Supreme Court president Miguel Macias, said
declaring Arteaga president "would be the best incarnation of
democracy."
The three-way jockeying for the presidency was triggered Thursday when
Congress voted to oust Bucaram on the grounds of "mental incapacity."
The legislature then voted in its president, Alarcon, to the dismay of
Arteaga who said she should have succeeded Bucaram.
Despite his concession Sunday, Bucaram denounced the "circus"
atmosphere in which he was removed and maintained that under the
constitution he should remain in office until 2000.
He said he would stand again in the elections in 2000, saying "those
who cast me aside will call on Bucaram to save the country."
The crisis sparked chaos in the Andean country and on Friday thousands
of demonstrators clashed with police, leaving one person dead and at
least six injured.
Labor unrest protesting skyrocketing prices for fuel and basic services
-- part of an austerity package imposed by Bucaram -- had paralyzed the
country, leading to his ouster.
The eccentric antics of Bucaram, who calls himself "El Loco" or the
crazy one, also fueled popular discontent.
