FIFA To Take Over Intercontinental Championship 
World soccer's governing body FIFA will take over the Intercontinental
Championship starting in 1997, which will help the tournament, first
conceived by Saudi Arabia, gain prominence, soccer officials said
Wednesday.
A formal announcement is likely to be made by FIFA President Joao
Havelange when he travels to Riyadh Friday to take part in the
inauguration of the Second Intercontinental Championship.
Argentina, Mexico, Denmark, Nigeria, Japan and host Saudi Arabia are
taking part in the dlrs 5 million tournament that will run through Jan.
13.
``FIFA will supervise the tournament from next time,'' said Abdulla
al-Athel, director of the current championship. ``Saudi Arabia has done
(that) which it can do and we are happy that we have contributed to the
development of soccer,'' al-Athel told a news conference Wednesday.
In 1991, the soccer confederations of Asia, Africa, South America, the
Caribbean and North and Central America agreed to organize the
Intercontinental Championship.
The championship was to take place every two years with each
confederation hosting the event on a rotating basis. The first
tournament was held in 1992 in Riyadh with Argentina winning in a field
that included Ivory Coast, the United States and Saudi Arabia.
Since no other country offered to host the second championship,
soccer-crazy Saudi Arabia agreed to host it for the second time. The
tournament was to be held in 1994, but the World Cup and logistical
problems forced the organizers to delay it until January 1995.
``The idea that FIFA should take over the tournament came in 1994 and
it is surely good news,'' said Dato Peter Velappan, general secretary
of the Asian Football Confederation, which now coordinates the
tournament.
``We call it champion of the champions,'' said Velappan of the
tournament because the participating nations are the top continental
cup winners.
In the 1992 tournament, UEFA, the European soccer federation, was not
represented. But in this tournament, the European champion Denmark is
taking part.
Nigeria, which lost a hard-fought second round match to Italy in the
1994 World Cup, is the Africa Cup winner. Japan, though it failed to
qualify for the World Cup, is the reigning Asian Cup champion.
Mexico is the North and Central American and Caribbean Football
Association (CONCACAF) champion, and Argentina is the South American
champion. Saudi Arabia, the first Asian team to reach the second round
of the World Cup since North Korea did so in 1966, is taking part as
the host.
``It is a great mixture of soccer talent,'' said Velappan.
The Intercontinental champion team will get dlrs 1.5 million, the
runners-up dlrs 1 million. The third and fourth place teams will get
dlrs 800,000 and 700,000, respectively, and the last two teams will
take home dlrs 500,000 each.
