Mandela targets World Cup JOHANNESBURG: President Nelson Mandela said he
backed South Africa's candidacy to host the 2006 World Cup following a
meeting with FIFA president Joao Havelange. Havelange presented Mandela
with an official medal of FIFA in the grounds of the Sunnyside hotel
here. Mandela responded by praising world football's top official for
helping South Africa reintegrate itself into the football world. Havelange
said he felt South Africa is now "able to receive the highest level sports
competition in the world. "I have invited executive president Solomon
Morewa of SAFA and president Mandela to put forward South Africa as a
candidate for the World Cup 2006." Mandela immediately replied he supported
the idea without reservations. Parry to host Euro transfer meeting LONDON:
Premier League chief Rick Parry accepted a European Commission invitation
to chair a meeting of top European clubs to clarify the football transfer
market situation in the wake of the Bosman case. The move reflects the EU's
growing frustration with UEFA, who have so far refused to accept last
month's European Court verdict which outlawed rules limiting the number of
foreigners able to play in a side at any one time. Premiership spokesman
Mike Lee said: "It is an extremely positive development. The EU want us to
act as a facilitator to bring together representatives of the EU's top
professional leagues and clubs to discuss the full implications of the
Bosman case and we have accepted that suggestion." Parry met EC officials
in Brussels this week to consider interpretation of last month's court
victory by Belgian player Jean-Marc Bosman. EU threatens German clubs over
Bosman HAMBURG, Germany: The European Commission on Friday threatened
Germany's 36 professional football clubs with sanctions if they did not
abide by last month's European Court of Justice ruling on foreign
players. The clubs decided last Sunday to maintain the ceiling of three
foreign players per game as laid down by European football authority UEFA
rather than scrap the limit mid-season. Europe threw out the restriction in
the wake of the Bosman transfer ruling four weeks ago when the court judged
it constituted a breach of EU law on freedom of movement within the
European Union. European Commissioner Karel van Miert said on German
television clubs not abiding by the EU ruling faced sanctions, including
fines. UEFA and world football authority FIFA are to meet in Zurich on
Monday in an effort to find a solution to the problem. more
