12th NAM Summit Ends With Emphasis on Peace, 
The 12th Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) summit concluded here Thursday
night with a call for further cooperation between the developing
countries and the developed North and the establishment of an equitable
new international economic order.
The heads of state or government of the 113-member NAM, gathered in
South Africa's Indian 0cean coastal city of Durban for a two-day
meeting, hammered out a new strategy for the future of developing
countries in the coming few years.
The final document issued at the end of the summit noted that continued
acts of violence in Africa perpetrated by terrorist groups against
innocent civilians, have caused instability and severe disruption of
development efforts in the continent.
It supports the efforts made by African countries toward the resolution
of incipient and persistent conflicts in the continent and called on
the international community to support these efforts.
On disarmament and international security, the leaders reiterated that
with the end of the Cold War, there is no justification for the
maintenance of of nuclear arsenals, or concepts of international
security based on developing military alliances and policies of nuclear
deterrence.
The heads of state and government called for an international
conference in 1999, to reach an agreement on a phased program for the
the complete elimination of nuclear weapons.
Referring to international economic situation, the document said that
while the globalization and liberalization trend is expected to lead to
increasing economic opportunity for developing countries, many
developing countries continue to be marginalized.
Central focus of international efforts should be put in the creation of
an environment where the developing countries will "be able to
successfully enter, compete and benefit from the globalization", it
noted.
The leaders also stressed the need for new financial flows to debtor
countries, in addition to debt-relief measures. They urged creditor
countries and financial institutions to continue to extend concessional
financial assistance, particularly to the least developed countries.
The two-day NAM summit was attended by 65 heads of state and
government. Seven observer countries including China were present at
the summit.
