Chernobyl Director Offers West New Plan to Shut Plant 
A Ukrainian nuclear official suggested Thursday that Western countries
pay to build three conventional thermal reactors so that
energy-strapped Ukraine could close the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
``Building them would cost dlrs 2 billion, plus the same amount of
money to buy the fuel,'' Sergei Parashin, the plant's director, told a
news conference. He did not say how much closing Chernobyl itself would
cost.
``Ukraine doesn't have any problems with Chernobyl -- only the West
does,'' he said.
Parashin's comments came immediately before the arrival in Kiev of a
delegation from the Group of Seven most industrialized nations and the
European Union to discuss Chernobyl.
Kiev has repeatedly said Ukraine's grave economic difficulties and
energy crisis prevent it from closing the plant without Western
compensation.
Ukrainian officials' estimates of what they would need to close
Chernobyl have ranged from dlrs 1.4 billion to as much as dlrs 12
billion.
Previous talks with the West have deadlocked.
Chernobyl's two working reactors produce some 7 percent of Ukraine's
energy. Reactor No. 4, which exploded in 1986 in the world's worst
nuclear accident, has been encased in a steel-and-concrete
``sarcophagus.'' Reactor No. 2 has not been operating since a fire in
1991.
The two functioning reactors also have been shut down periodically for
malfunctions, and there has been growing concern about safety of the
sarcophagus.
Ukrainian experts recently warned that rainwater dripping into the
sarcophagus could set off an uncontrolled nuclear reaction in leftover
fuel in the exploded reactor.
Ukrainian authorities have said they will keep the plant running until
the year 2011 unless a deal with the West is reached.
Parashin predicted the West would ultimately agree to pay for phasing
out Chernobyl. He said G-7 leaders had said as much ``and if they
renege now they will lose face.''
Meanwhile, environmental activists warn that Ukraine's government might
misappropriate any Western money it would be given.
``I have a serious concern that after getting this money, Ukraine might
wish to keep the plant running,'' said Hanna Tsvetkova, a nuclear
expert with Greenpeace Ukraine.
Ukraine, which in Soviet days received subsidized fuel from Russia, has
suffered chronic energy shortages and wracked up huge debts to Russia
since the Soviet collapse. In response, the government has partially
cut power to many cities and factories.
