Police Take Over Security in East Timor 
East Timor police Saturday took over security affairs in the territory
from the military in a move to create a conducive security climate
ahead of the United Nations-sponsored ballot, The Jakarta Post reported
Sunday.
The transfer of authority was marked by the admission of 460 Mobile
Brigade personnel and the withdrawal of 1,500 combat troops from East
Timor in two separate ceremonies in Dili, capital of East Timor.
Provincial Police chief Col. Timbul Silaen, who received the Mobile
Brigade officers, said their main mission was to maintain security,
enforce the law and protect the U.N. Assistance Mission in East Timor
(UNAMET), who are in the territory to help organize the ballot.
"With the new authority, the police are expected to take charge of
stopping crimes, the illegal possession of guns, violence and
intimidation against local people. We are present here (East Timor) to
ensure the legal certainty (of the ballot) and to create a feeling of
safety among the people," he said.
He said 3,900 security personnel from the provincial police force had
been deployed to eight regencies to maintain security ahead of the
Indonesian general election on Monday until the August 8 ballot. The
August 8 ballot will determine whether the East Timorese accept an
autonomy package or establish an independent nation.
The Mobile Brigade personnel, who arrived in Dili on Saturday, will be
deployed to three other regencies. Approximately 4,000 more Mobile
Brigade personnel are scheduled to arrive in the near future to help
protect the U.N. mission.
Under an agreement signed by Indonesia and Portugal on May 5, the U.N.
will deploy civilian police advisers from several countries to assist
Indonesian police in maintaining law and order. A key function will be
the disarmament of rival factions that are either for or against
independence.
Since January, dozens of East Timorese have been killed in clashes
between the warring factions.
The former Portuguese colony of East Timor was integrated into
Indonesia in 1976 in a move never recognized by the U.N., which still
considers Portugal as the administering power of the territory.
The August 8 ballot will allow the territory's people to choose whether
their homeland should become an autonomous region within Indonesia or
totally independent.
