China expresses positive interest in major Hong Kong rail project 
China has expressed a "positive attitude" towards Hong Kong's planned
three major railway projects, a British official said Thursday.
Alan Paul, who head the British side of the Joint Liaison Group
handling Hong Kong's transitional matters, was speaking to reporters
after a meeting with the Chinese side on the rail projects.
"The Chinese side has expressed a positive and supportive attitude
(towards the projects) and we appreciate that," he said.
The projects included the 52-kilometer (32.24-mile) railway designed to
ease traffic in Hong Kong's crowded western New Territories and Kowloon
corridor and provide a new route to China.
The other two projects project involved linking the main railway to new
towns in Ma An Shan and Tseung Kwan O in the eastern side of Kowloon
peninsula.
"We had a very useful discussion and the Chinese side has asked a
number of questions and we want to reply these questions in writing as
soon as possible," said Paul.
"We value these exchanges with the Chinese side and are very happy and
ready to continue," he said.
Paul's sentiment was also echoed by Chen Zuo'er, who led the Chinese
side in the talks.
China has repeatedly warned that if the Kowloon-Canton Railway Corp.
(KCRC) started the projects before Hong Kong's handover to China on
July 1, 1997, Beijing would not recognise any pre-existing contracts.
China was angered when KCRC went ahead with costly technical studies of
the project in Western New Territories, forcing the government to ask
KCRC to freeze those studies in June.
The other two projects are still in the planning stage.
The total cost of the projects has been put at 75 billion Hong Kong
dollars (10 billion US), but this is expected to rise to 80 billion
when spending on land clearance is taken into account.
As the territory's future ruler, China insists it must guard against
the project becoming a burden to taxpayers. London has been under
periodic attack for not consulting Beijing.
