Senior CPC Official Meets Japanese Visitors 
Hu Jintao, member of the Secretariat and the Standing Committee of the
Political Bureau, met here this morning with Obuchi Keizo, former
vice-president of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) of Japan, and his
party.
Extending a welcome to the Japanese visitors, Hu said that this year is
the 25th anniversary of the normalization of Sino-Japanese relations.
Under the joint cultivation and efforts of the governments, statesmen,
and people of insight from various circles of the two countries in the
past 25 years, Sino-Japanese friendly relations have had a continuous
development, and cherished hard-achieved results, the Chinese leader
said.
He pointed out that the establishment and development of a long-term,
healthy and stable good-neighborly friendship between China and Japan
are of great significance for the two countries, as well as for the
peace, stability and development of Asia and the world at large.
China and Japan should view and grasp the general trend of the
development of bilateral relations from a long-range and strategic
height," noted Hu.
He said that both sides should learn from history and remove
interferences to push forward a healthy and steady development of
bilateral relations, on the basis of the Sino-Japanese Joint Statement
and the Sino-Japan Treaty of Peace and Friendship.
Expressing his pleasure at meeting with Hu, Obuchi said that this year
is the 25th anniversary of the normalization of Japan-China relations,
and the 20th anniversary of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship signed
between the two countries is to come.
He said that he hoped to further strengthen exchanges between statesmen
of the two sides, especially young statesmen, so as to make concerted
efforts for the development of bilateral relations.
Qi Huaiyuan, president of the Chinese People's Association for
Friendship with Foreign Countries, was present at the meeting.
Obuchi arrived here Thursday at the invitation of the China-Japan
Friendship Association.
