An Argentine investigating judge on Wednesday questioned two Iranians
detained in connection with the truck bomb here on July 18, the first
of a series of anti-Jewish bombings in Latin America and Britain.
``At the appropriate moment, I will release information that will knock
you over backward,'' the judge, Juan Jose Galeano, promised reporters
after briefing President Carlos Saul Menem on the Iranian connection.
One newspaper here reported on Wednesday that a dissident Iranian
diplomat reviewing 20 photos in a safe house in Venezuela had picked
out four Iranian diplomats as suspects in the bombing, which took about
100 lives here. All four had recently visited Buenos Aires, said the
newspaper, Pagina 12.
Last weekend, the Argentine judge flew in Menem's jet to Caracas, where
he questioned an Iranian political refugee, Monousheh Moatamer.
Venezuela and Iran are members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, and Iran is believed to have its largest embassy
staff in the Americas in Caracas.
``We have good leads, good facts, and I think that the results will be
good also,'' Menem told a radio interviewer.
Another Argentine newspaper, La Nacion, said on Wednesday that an
Iranian military officer who lived here for several years had planned
the explosion, the deadliest of the four anti-Jewish attacks of the
last 10 days.
``All fingers pointing to Iran'' was the headline on Wednesday in
another newspaper, the Buenos Aires Herald.
At the United Nations in New York, Gad Yaacobi, the Israeli delegate,
wrote a letter to the Security Council, referring to the truck bomb
this month and the bombing of the Israeli embassy here in 1992, saying:
``The investigations around both incidents clearly point to the
involvement of the Iranian government.''
Here in Buenos Aires, the federal judge did not disclose on Wednesday
what he had learned from his interrogations of the two unidentified
Iranians detained here, a man and a woman. The judge released two
Argentine men who had been questioned. One reportedly sold the delivery
van used by the terrorists as a truck bomb. Another man had rented an
apartment that was apparently used to observe activities at the
bombers' target, the Jewish community center here.
On Tuesday, for the second time in 24 hours, Argentine Foreign Ministry
officials questioned the Iranian ambassador, Hadi Soleiman Pour.
Ministry officials reported that the Iranian Embassy here had increased
its use of its diplomatic pouch in the weeks before the bombing.
Noting that two-way trade between the two countries had dropped in
recent years from $600 million to $100 million, some Argentines say
Tehran had calculated that the two countries had an expendable
relationship.
``Until now, we have diplomatic relations with Iran,'' Menem said on
Wednesday. But he warned that if the detective trail led definitively
to Iran, Argentina would know what to do ``to put an end to the
situation.''
On Wednesday, Argentina called home its ambassador in Tehran, Mario
Quadri Castillo, ``for consultations.''
In their defense, Iranian diplomats said that they had nothing to do
with the bombing. ``In no way was Iran involved,'' Pour, the
ambassador, told reporters on leaving the Foreign Ministry here.
The Iranian cultural attache here attacked the credibility of the
dissident Iranian diplomat in Caracas, saying he was ``a functionary
from the shah's era.''
``The Argentine factor in this crazy attack was very small or did not
even exist,'' Andres Cisneros, secretary general of the Foreign
Ministry, told reporters. ``At least two factions of the Party of God
have taken responsbility for the strike. If there's a state that knows
the Party of God, that state is Iran.''
Some observers fear that the Argentine press and government may be
racing to conclusions too fast.
``It's a mistake to narrow the investigation,'' said Avi Weiss, a New
York rabbi who spent five days here last week consoling survivors and
their families. ``No stone should be left unturned. It could have been
Iran. It could have been Syria. It could have been Argentine
neo-Nazis.''
The Argentine foreign minister, Guido di Tella, rejected on Wednesday
the theory of local neo-Nazi participation in the bombing.
Anti-Semitism is a theme of the past,'' said the minister, who is to
travel to New York on Thursday to address the U.N. Security Council on
the bombing. ``Anti-Semitism is completely defeated in Argentina.''
On Wednesday, a parents group protested that the Egyptian government
was installing its embassy on a block that was damaged by the bombing
of the Israeli Embassy two years ago.
``It's widely known that these days any embassy is a target favored by
terrorism,'' read a protest letter signed by parents of children who
attend a school next door to the new Egyptian Embassy. The parents
warned that their children now face ``a high risk.''
