England look for golden solution
England will need a golden tonic in doubles events in the Commonwealth
Games to ease the pain of an up-and-down season.
Disappointment in the Thomas and Uber Cup, the equivalent of Davis and
Federation Cup in tennis, and Darren Hall's pulling out of the
Commonwealth Games, have been balanced by mixed doubles success in the
All England Championships and a European men's doubles title.
Team manager Ciro Ciniglio controversially left out potential
Commonwealth Games medal hope Steve Butler, and doubles specialist
Gillian Gowers, but is adamant the side can excell without them.
"Unfortunately, we are restricted to five men and five women. Otherwise
we would have taken more," said Ciniglio.
Ciniglio knows their clean sweep of all six Commonwealth Games events
in Brisbane in 1982 is virtually out of the question with the emergence
of Malaysia as one of the top world badminton powers.
But he can have high hopes of gold for All England mixed doubles
champions Nick Ponting and Joanne Wright, and All England women's
doubles semi-finalists Julie Bradbury and Gillian Clark.
Ponting and Wright beat Gillian Clark and Chris Hunt in an English
jamboree in the final of the mixed doubles event of the All England
Championships -- the equivalent of Wimbledon in tennis.
Ponting has one of the best mixed doubles services in the world. He
manages to keep the shuttlecock close to the net, but ensures it just
reaches the service area.
Wright, with her quickness and agility at the net, was often on hand to
punish a poor return and their class could see them to Commonwealth
gold.
Bradbury and Clark lost their All-England semi-final despite leading
South Korea's Chung So-Young and Gil Young-Ah 17-13 in the final set --
and having five match points. But they too must be realistic of a win
in Victoria's McKinnon Gymnasium.
Chris Hunt and Simon Archer became England's first European champions
in 10 years when they beat Andrei Antropov and Nicolai Zuev, the first
Russians ever to reach a European final, in Holland earlier this year.
