With Bosnia Quiet, U.N. Pushes For More Lasting Cease-fire
Fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina has all but stopped after a
seven-day cease-fire negotiated last week by former President Jimmy
Carter.
Seeking to extend the break in fighting, U.N. mediators have begun an
intensive effort to negotiate a new accord that would commit the
warring parties to stop fighting for four months. Mediators hope to
reach such an accord by Saturday, when the cease-fire expires.
The U.N. military commander in Bosnia, Gen. Michael Rose, met Monday
with the commander of the Bosnian Serb army, Gen. Ratko Mladic. Tuesday
he held talks with a Bosnian government delegation headed by Vice
President Ejup Ganic.
``Both sides are telling us what they will and won't accept,'' said
Thant Myint-U, a U.N. spokesman in Zagreb.
``We are hoping that within a matter of days, we'll have a
comprehensive agreement on a cessation of hostilities with enough
guarantees so it won't fall apart. Our people on the ground have the
feeling that both sides want to see how far this process can go. No one
is completely optimistic, but there is enough chance that we can pull
this off to make us want to give it all we've got. An agreement like
this would go beyond anything we've had so far in the war.''
Officials familiar with Rose's mission say he is seeking an accord that
would include provisions for an exchange of prisoners, a loosening of
the siege of Sarajevo and freedom of movement for U.N. troops.
The accord might also include provisions for the separation of forces
along some battle lines and the deployment of U.N. troops to keep them
apart.
If such an agreement were reached, the next step would be a renewal of
negotiations aimed at persuading Bosnian Serb leaders to accept the
peace plan drawn up by the five-nation ``contact group,'' made up of
the United States, Germany, France, Britain and Russia.
The Bosnian Serbs have said they are not satisfied with the territory
that the peace plan allots to them.
Mediators have been encouraged by the success of the current
cease-fire, which took effect on Saturday. One U.N. official estimated
Tuesday that military activity in Bosnia has dropped to 5 percent of
the level of just a week ago.
Despite the lull, there have been sporadic outbursts of firing and
shelling in several parts of Bosnia, particularly near the strategic
town of Bihac and in nearby Velika Kladusa
Forces fighting Bosnian government authority there, a combination of
ethnic Serbs from nearby Croatia and renegade Muslims led by Fikret
Abdic, did not sign the cease-fire that Carter negotiated.
``They are trying to enlarge their presence in Velika Kladusa, and we
are trying to stop them,'' Ganic said in Sarajevo.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)
A relief convoy reached the Bihac area Tuesday after being held up for
five days by Croatian Serbs and their Muslim allies. It was the third
convoy to enter the area in three weeks. Each convoy carries enough
food to feed the 180,000 people in the besieged region for one day.
Convoys bringing fuel to U.N. forces have also been halted repeatedly
in recent days. A U.N. spokesman, Alexander Ivanko, said fuel shortages
were making it difficult to monitor compliance with the current
cease-fire.
``If one of the sides comes to us and asks us to investigate a
cease-fire violation somewhere,'' Ivanko said, ``we can say to them
that we don't have the fuel stocks, because that is the situation.''
