WASHINGTON: Bill Clinton is sworn in amid pomp and pageantry
as the last US president of the 20th century. US-inaugural,3rdlead 500
words around 2245 GMT (pictures) by Gretchen Cook WASHINGTON: Honoring
a centuries-old tradition, President Bill Clinton and First Lady
Hillary Clinton on Monday lead off an inaugural parade showcasing
marching bands, mariachis and mules. US-inaugural-parade,3rdlead 500
words around 2330 GMT (pictures) by Carole Landry (pictures) Also
moved: US-inaugural-issues US-inaugural-scene BELGRADE : Serbian police
lay into opposition demonstrators after the country's courts deliver a
double rebuff to the opposition, suspending its election win in
Belgrade and ruling against its claimed win in another town.
Yugo-protests,5thlead 700 words around 2215 GMT by Philippe Valat
MOSCOW : Russia maintains its hostile stance towards NATO's eastwards
expansion despite protracted "positive" talks between NATO chief Javier
Solana and Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov.
Russia-NATO,5thlead 700 words around 2215 GMT by Boris Bachorz KINSHASA
: Zairean Prime Minister Kengo Wa Dondo orders the army onto the
offensive to retake eastern territories which fell to Tutsi-led rebels
three months ago. Zaire-rebels,3rdlead. Moved. PARIS : President
Jacques Chirac announces plans for sweeping reforms of France's justice
system. France-justice,lead. Moved. WASHINGTON: Secretary of
State-designate Madeleine Albright wins the unanimous backing of the
powerful Senate committee US-Albright,2ndlead 400 words moved
WASHINGTON: Members of the House of Representatives are to sanction
their leader, Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has admitted ethics
violations. US-Gingrich 400 words moved by Francis Curta LIMA: Families
of the 73 men held hostage for nearly six weeks gather at the Red Cross
to collect letters from their loved ones with no end in sight to the
prolonged crisis. Peru-hostages,2ndlead (pictures) 450 words by 2215
GMT by Diane Bartz MEXICO CITY: Opposition parties which have a first
real shot at knocking Mexico's ruling PRI out of power in Congress are
setting themselves apart, refusing to take allegedly illegal public
campaign funds. Mexico-politics 550 words around 2215 GMT by Luis
Granovsky ANKARA: Turkey threatens to set up air and naval bases in the
Turkish-controlled northern Cyprus if Greece carries through with plans
to set up its own bases in the southern part of the Mediterranean
island. Turkey-Cyprus-base,2ndlead 600 words moved by Umit Enginsoy
BELGRADE: Serbia's opposition movement suffers a double blow as the
ruling Socialists announce they are contesting its electoral win in
Belgrade and a court denies its claimed victory in another town.
Yugo-protests,4thlead 600 words moved LONDON: Tony Blair's Labour Party
matches tax and spending levels already drafted by Britain's
Conservative government, in a bid to mute Tory thunder that Labour
would be a high-tax, high-risk option to voters at upcoming elections.
Britain-politics 650 words moved JERUSALEM: Israel urges Syria to break
a year-long freeze in peace talks with the Jewish state in the wake of
the Hebron accord, insisting that the Golan Heights will be on the
negotiating table. Israel-Syria,2ndlead 650 words moved by Jean-Luc
Renaudie PARIS: Premier Alain Juppe appoints a mediator as more than
1,000 bank workers continue to hold executives of the Credit Foncier de
France (CFF) bank prisoner in the bank's headquarters here to protest a
government plan to liquidate the bank. France-bank,2ndlead 600 words
moved BRUSSELS: France and Germany issue a joint warning that they will
not allow Britain to retain a veto over their plans to deepen
integration within a "flexible" European Union. EU-flexibility,lead 500
words moved MOSCOW: Russia maintains its hostile stance towards NATO
expansion eastwards despite efforts by NATO chief Javier Solana to
sooth Russian anger in lengthy talks with Foreign Minister Yevgeny
Primakov. Russia-NATO,4thlead 650 words moved by Boris Bachorz
KHARTOUM: Sudan plans a major counter-offensive to wrest back territory
from rebels in the east of the country, and accuses Ethiopian troops of
committing war crimes on its territory, a charge Addis Ababa rejects.
Sudan 600 words moved by Mohammad Ali Said MOSCOW: Russian President
Boris Yeltsin is discharged from hospital, after spending 12 days
recovering from pneumonia that sparked fresh concern about his capacity
to govern and led to renewed calls for his resignation. Russia-Yeltsin
500 words moved TOKYO: A man reportedly drunk and wielding a knife
hijacks an All Nippon Airways domestic flight but is arrested after the
Boeing 777 lands at Fukuoka airport with 192 people on board.
Japan-hijack,6thlead 600 words moved. Picture NEW DELHI: US balloonist
Steve Fossett completes the longest solo balloon flight in history but
is forced to call off his around-the-world quest after landing in
India. US-balloon,3rdlead 550 words moved afp
