At the end of a day of brutal fighting, the Russian government late Monday
offered a 48-hour cease-fire ``to prevent further bloodshed.'' Russian
tanks and artillery hammered the city's heart with hundreds of shells and
rockets Monday as outnumbered Chechen rebels fought to hold the
presidential palace and other key installations. An official Russian
statement, obtained by The Associated Press, said the cease-fire was to
begin at 8 a.m. Tuesday (0500 GMT). It was unclear whether Russia would
cease its offensive without the Chechens' agreement to its terms, including
laying down arms and retreating from their positions. EREZ JUNCTION, Gaza
Strip -- Israel and the PLO reached agreement on a safe passage linking
autonomous Palestinian areas as both sides worked Monday to smooth the
problems plaguing peace. PLO chairman Yasser Arafat and Israeli Foreign
Minister Shimon Peres gave no details after meeting at the Erez border
crossing. Both said that despite bloodshed and the struggle over Israeli
settlements that have set back the negotiations, they remain determined to
implement the PLO-Israel agreement reached in September 1993. NEW YORK --
Jury selection in the trial of 12 Muslims accused of plotting a ``war of
urban terrorism'' in the United States began Monday. U.S. District Judge
Michael Mukasey warned potential jurors to avoid a verdict based solely on
the defendants' religious beliefs. At issue is whether Egyptian Sheik Omar
Abdel-Rahman, a blind diabetic, plotted to bomb the World Trade Center and
other New York City landmarks and to kill Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak,
other politicians and prominent Jews.  SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina -- The
Bosnian government accused the United States, Russia and Europe on Monday
of bowing to its Serb foes by backtracking on a take-it-or-leave-it peace
plan. A meeting of Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic and President Alija
Izetbegovic with U.S.  Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke
highlighted the Muslim-led government's frustration over what it perceives
as weakening support by its best ally. Bosnia was reported quiet Monday,
the eighth day of a four-month truce. But the dispute made any quick
progress toward permanent peace unlikely after 33 months of war. MEXICO
CITY -- The peso rose slightly Monday as Mexico began drawing on a bailout
package from the United States and Canada. But the stock market plunged,
with investors unconvinced of the government's ability to overcome the
crisis. The U.S. Federal Reserve said it intervened to shore up the peso at
the request of the Mexican central bank. The crisis, largely the result of
big trade deficits and declining foreign investment, was touched off by
Mexico's decision last month to let the peso float.
