Cambodian opposition figure lashes out at Phnom Penh
Cambodia's primary voice of dissent, Sam Rainsy, addressed a growing
opposition movement abroad here Sunday with a vitrolic attack on the
government that threw him out of the National Assembly.
Rainsy was kicked out of his post as finance minister after he revealed
and tried to clean up corruption within the ranks; he then was booted
out of parliament altogether in June due to a squabble within his
party, FUNCINPEC, which withdrew his party membership and the
legislative seat that went with it.
"Cambodia doesn't belong to a handful of corrupt and totalitarian
people," he told some 300 supporters in Paris. "Give Cambodia back to
the Cambodians."
The crowd included supporters of the country's murderous Khmer Rouge
and sought to join all who oppose the Cambodian government -- elected
under United Nations scrutiny in 1993 -- in what Rainsy called a "New
Alliance."
He denied that he was forming a new political party, but the New
Alliance has a 10-point platform and the meeting outlining its ideas
was conducted like a party congress. Its main points promote peace with
Khmer Rouge guerrillas, an end to corruption and freedom of expression.
"If the government follows this program, I would consider that I am no
more in opposition," he said. "If it doesn't follow it, I would be in
opposition."
The current government "lets anarchy rule the country," the former
minister, who enjoys broad popular support back home, said in a speech
mixing French and Khmer and sprinkled with jokes blasting corruption
among former colleagues.
Members of the audience expressed growing dissatisfaction with the
government.
"It's worse than before. Everyone is corrupt," said one well-heeled
Khmer woman who declined to give her name but said growing numbers in
Cambodia's significant diaspora communities abroad -- in France,
Australia and the United States -- are opposing the Phnom Penh
government.
Rainsy maintains that his expulsion from the government was illegal.
Foreign governments, human rights groups and diplomats warned of an end
to Cambodia's fledling democracy as a result.
The parents of the 27-year-old French tourist Jean-Michel Braquet, who
was killed by the Khmer Rouge along with his Australian and British
companions last year, also came to the meeting to campaign for justice.
"They were sacrificed for Cambodian interests. The government's
attitude was absolutely absurd in this affair," the father, Jean-Claude
Braquet, said.
Rainsy has said, in a statement refuted by Australian Foreign Minister
Gareth Evans, that the governments of Cambodia, Australia, Britain and
France allowed the three to be killed in order to make the Khmer Rouge
look blood-thirsty.
