Former U.S. Presidents Call for Stronger Ties with China 
Former U.S. Presidents George Bush, Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford have
jointly urged the Congress to work for a stronger relationship with
China.
In an unusual move, the three former presidents, together with eight
former secretaries of state, five former secretaries of treasury, six
former secretaries of defense and five former national security
advisors, signed an open letter to the Congress, urging the legislators
to approve the Most-Favored-Nation (MFN) status for China.
"American foreign policy cannot succeed if it fails to engage China,"
said the letter, which was published Wednesday in The Washington Post,
The New York Times and other influential newspapers.
"Establishing strong, enduring ties with China has been a principal
objective of American foreign policy since President (Richard) Nixon's
historic visit in 1972, and has been supported by all subsequent
administrations of both parties," the letter read.
"President Clinton's upcoming visit to the People's Republic of China
is a continuation of that policy. It is also an affirmation of the
importance of constructive Sino-American relations at a critical moment
in Asia," the letter said.
"It is thus necessary that the visit take place as scheduled," it
added.
Some lawmakers, alleging China of human rights violations and accusing
the administration of transferring high-techs to the country, asked
Clinton to postpone or even cancel the trip, which would be the first
presidential visit to China in a decade.
Last week, in a major speech on his China policy, Clinton also defended
his trip by emphasizing that engagement with China is in the interest
of the U.S. while isolation will make the U.S. itself isolated.
"The importance of the strategic relationship is underscored by current
developments in the region, particularly Asian financial crisis and the
nuclear tests by India and Pakistan. It is likewise in the vital
interest of the United States that China continue to open and reform
its economy and improve the quality of life of its citizens," the
letter said.
"We can advance that vital interest by continuing to extend normal
trading relations to China," it added.
Clinton decided early this month to extend the MFN trade status to
China for another year. However, the Congress has a right to debate and
vote on the decision within a month while some lawmakers oppose it.
"The price for a failure to forge a strong, consistent policy towards
China will be paid in a weakened American ability to shape
international events in ways that serve our interests and support our
values," the letter said.
"China is destined to become a great economic and political power in
the 21st century. The United States should neither fear nor oppose this
development," the letter said.
"U.S. policy should instead proceed from the premise that our vital
national security interests are best served by a China that appreciates
America's basic values and becomes a full participantt in the
international system and institutions which the United States has taken
the lead in creating since 1945," it said.
"Leadership, engagement and commitment on our part are essential to
helping China assume such a role," the letter said.
