Jets' Casillas Seems To Be Over His High Anxiety
Tony Casillas, the only defensive tackle on the Jets who married a
psychiatrist, feels good when people meet him for the first time and
tell him, ``Say, you're no jerk.''
``I'm a very complex person,'' he said Thursday as the New York Jets
returned to practice after a two-day layoff during their bye week. ``I
have a reputation as being moody. But I work.''
Whatever controversy he generated during a career in which he started
with the Falcons, moved to the Cowboys and after consecutive Super Bowl
victories had a brief stint with the Chiefs, Casillas works at what he
does.
``The big thing about him?'' said Greg Robinson, the Jets' defensive
coordinator and former line coach. ``He loves to work.''
That was the thrust of at least one National Football League scouting
report on Casillas, that he will finish the plays, and that he will not
give up even in a game that is out of hand.
He has upgraded a defensive line that has not sent a player to the Pro
Bowl since 1985. His performance with Donald Evans in last Sunday's
victory over the Patriots provided the club's best tackle play of the
year, according to Coach Pete Carroll.
It should be getting even better, and that will make an impact on the
remainder of the Jets' season.
``Their play will affect how the other team blocks them, and then it
will help our ends,'' said the defensive-line coach, Larry Coyer. ``The
other team has been able to double-team our pass-rushing ends. But
that's about to cease.''
Casillas has helped produce a tackle surge that is a rarity on the
Jets. He shared in his first sack of the season against the Pats.
He is not reluctant to discuss his talents. He explained that he was
not in the right frame of mind when he joined the Jets after Game 3,
when their line was shredded by the Dolphins.
``But when I first got to Dallas I made a big impact on the defensive
line,'' he said. ``Now, I'm understanding the scheme here.''
Casillas became a Jet after a bizarre spring and summer in which he
practiced only sporadically in minicamp with his new team, the Chiefs,
aying that he had a problem with high blood pressure.
Then, on the eve of training camp, he told Coach Marty Schottenheimer
he was concerned about his health. Eventually, the Chiefs released him,
forcing him to return his bonus. Their general manager, Carl Peterson,
asked the league to investigate whether the Cowboys had tampered with
Casillas.
He had received a $1.2 million bonus as a free agent after three
productive years with the Cowboys. But just when he signed with the
Chiefs, the Cowboys hired Barry Switzer, Casillas' former coach at
Oklahoma.
Casillas said that he had reactions to blood pressure medication that
made him tired and affected his practice. He says that he has been able
to work through his medical problems now.
His Dallas stint followed five seasons with the Falcons that ended in
contract disputes. When the Falcons drafted him out of Oklahoma in
1986, he was the second player taken in the entire college draft,
behind only Bo Jackson.
``He was one of the great nose tackles ever to play in college,'' said
Coyer. ``A natural-born nose tackle.''
Casillas became active in Dallas' Hispanic community, where he set up a
college scholarship program. He also spoke several times at a high
school, offering Cowboys tickets to students who improved their
attendance and grades.
``I'd like to get involved here in New York,'' he said. ``But I've been
here such a short time. I'd like to help kids who want to go to school
and can't afford it.''
He finds it amusing that while people analyze him, he was married to a
forensic psychiatrist. They separated last year.
``We were totally opposite, but to be married to a psychiatrist is
really interesting,'' he said. ``It was very stimulating.''
EXTRA POINTS
-- The Jets practiced without a middle linebacker. MARVIN JONES will
take the week off to keep his sprained right ankle in a cast, and KYLE
CLIFTON, whom Coach PETE CARROLL described as ``the ideal Jet,'' is
recovering from arthroscopic knee surgery.
-- JOHNNY JOHNSON, who ran through the Patriots for an average of 5.8
yards a carry, was effective on first down. ``There were more creases
than I had before,'' he said of his line's blocking.
