Dispute mars resumption of Israeli-Palestinian talks 
Israeli negotiators accused their Palestinian counterparts Thursday of
hampering progress on the key issue of Israel's withdrawal from Hebron
by bringing up a host of demands regarding other unimplemented articles
of the Oslo peace accords.
As the negotiators began their second day of talks at this Red Sea
resort, Israeli spokesman Moshe Fogel said his side was "trying to
focus on Hebron, but the Palestinians are trying to focus on a whole
gamut of issues."
"The Palestinians want to bring in other issues which is holding up the
possibility of reaching a quick agreement on Hebron," another Israeli
official told AFP.
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat for his part insisted that the
talks must deal with all unfulfilled Israeli commitments, including
easing a closure of Palestinian areas, the release of Palestinian
prisoners, opening a Palestinian airport in Gaza, safe passageways
between self-rule areas in Gaza and the West Bank, and water sharing.
Another Palestinian negotiator, Hannan Asfour, rejected Israeli charges
that the Palestinian side was stalling in the talks in hopes of
improving their negotiating position.
"The Palestinian side is serious and has always been serious, it's the
Israeli side that has not been serious," he told reporters.
All officials acknowledged however that the key outstanding issue
remained Hebron, the last West Bank city under full occupation and
which Israel was due to hand over to Yasser Arafat's Palestinian
Authority seven months ago.
Israel is seeking changes in the Oslo accord's terms for withdrawing
from Hebron so as to improve security guarantees for a small group of
Jewish settlers living amid the city's 120,000 Arab residents.
Israel radio said the key stumbling block involved Israeli demands that
buffer zones be created between the Jewish areas and zones due to come
under Palestinian control, a project Arafat on Wednesday charged was a
"racist" plan to introduce a kind of "apartheid" into Hebron.
US mediator Dennis Ross met meanwhile in Gaza City with Arafat to
discuss the ongoing negotiations.
Ross had earlier convinced both sides to postpone the start of the Taba
negotiations for two days, believing that smaller, informal contacts
would be more fruitful than full-fledged talks between delegations.
