Duran Lawyers Face Tough Time In Proving Insanity Defense 
A change in federal law means a Colorado man accused of trying to kill
President Clinton will have a tough time persuading a jury he is
innocent by reason of insanity, legal experts say.
Francisco Martin Duran is set to go on trial Thursday on charges of
spraying the White House with gunfire last October. He faces 10 counts,
including attempted assassination of the president, assaulting the
Secret Service officers who arrested him and breaking federal firearms
laws.
His lawyers, Leigh Kenny and A.J. Kramer, both from the federal public
defender's office, have said they plan to rely on an insanity defense.
But because of a 1984 change in the law, they will face a more
difficult task than did the attorney who defended John Hinckley Jr.,
the man who tried to kill President Reagan in 1981.
When Hinckley was tried, prosecutors had to prove he knew right from
wrong and could control his behavior. The jury acquitted Hinckley by
reason of insanity. He remains in St. Elizabeths Hospital.
The outcry after the Hinckley verdict prompted Congress in 1984 to
shift the burden of proof to the defense and change how insanity must
be proved.
Duran, 26, of suburban Colorado Springs, Colorado, is accused of
pulling a semiautomatic assault-style rifle from under his coat and
opening fire on the White House on the afternoon of Oct. 29, 1994.
Defense attorneys now must prove he had a mental defect that made him
unable to appreciate the wrongfulness of his actions at the time.
The change in the law ``would seem to make the raising of a successful
insanity defense much more difficult,'' said University of Virginia
Professor Richard Bonnie, director of the school's Institute of Law,
Psychiatry and Public Policy.
But the insanity defense -- rarely used and rarely successful -- was
``always hard for the defense, regardless of what the technical
instruction is on the burden of proof. The defense always has, as a
practical matter, the burden of persuading the jurors that he was
really severely mentally ill at the time of Immediately after the
shooting, Duran was tackled by tourists on the sidewalk in front of the
White House, investigators said.
Secret Service agents found Duran's pickup truck with the help of a
note found folded in his wallet. It also contained his name, address
and home telephone number.
Prosecutors have said the case could hinge on whether Duran was out to
hurt Clinton or planned only to shoot at the White House. Assassination
is the most serious charge, carrying a maximum penalty of life in
prison.
Duran's attorneys have contended their client did not intend to hurt
the president.
