MOSCOW: Russian President Boris Yeltsin has begun working on urgent
documents but doctors still want him to stay in hospital for three
weeks, according to his wife and other reports. His wife Naina said the
hospitalised president's condition had "improved" and that he had
already begun working on urgent documents. "On Monday, he had already
received the most urgent documents to work on them," she said in an
interview with Russian public television, cited by Interfax. She alone
had been allowed at her husband's bedside since a recurrence of his
serious heart condition last Thursday. But doctors have recommended
that Yeltsin spend three weeks in hospital for heart treatment and a
further two weeks resting, ITAR-TASS news agency reported.
(Russia-Yeltsin) NICE, France: A total of 120 US tourists were stranded
here when their cruise ship was impounded in this Riviera port against
debts owed by the New York-based firm Regency Cruise, the port
authority said. The passengers were taken ashore without notice and
given a free night's lodging at the Abela hotel here pending flights
home, but many of them had to stay on at their own expense for lack of
plane seats. The 105 crew members of various nationalities have not
been paid for two months. They have draped a banner on the
Liberian-registered liner's side with the words "On Strike" and are
refusing to leave the ship. Crew members said they had received a fax
from Regency Cruise saying it had folded. (France-US-cruise) ZAGREB:
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman's rightwing ruling party had won
almost 45 percent of votes cast in weekend parliamentary elections
after 90 percent of votes were counted, electoral commission officials
said. The Croatian Democratic Union won 44.82 percent of the votes
counted, against 18.44 for a coalition led by the Peasants' Party and
11.62 percent for the Social Liberals (HSLS). The final results for the
election will be published Friday. The handing out of seats in the new
127-member parliament will be done on a mixed proportional and simple
majority system that could see the ruling party winning a higher number
of seats than it would get on a straight proportional system.
(Yugo-Croatia-vote)
