Fifty Years After Blast, Trinity Site Stirs Emotions
The emotional fires ignited by the world's first atomic explosion still
burn bright at the stone monolith perpetually guarding ``Ground Zero.''
The sorrow, fear, anger and awe that arrived with the Atomic Age were
reflected Sunday in the faces of people who came to Trinity Site to
mark the 50th anniversary of The Bomb.
The first atomic bomb exploded here on July 16, 1945, at 5:29:45 a.m.
Mountain War Time. The blast produced a flash of light seen 420
kilometers (250 miles) away, a roar heard 80 kilometers (50 miles) away
_ and a mushroom cloud that rose 12,192 meters (40,000 feet).
``You think, Wow! Such devastation. It's amazing what they had to do to
end the war,'' said Rob Johnson of Albuquerque.
Others came in anger and sorrow.
One man splashed a vial of red liquid on the rough stone and mortar
marker. As authorities moved to clean it off, another protester shouted
``You can't wash the blood off. He merely made it visible.''
The man with the vial and two other protesters who argued with Army
personnel were escorted off the range. No arrests were made, said range
spokesman Larry Furrow.
Some of the record 5,308 visitors made a point of touching the marker
at the exact moment when the bomb exploded 50 years ago. A snaking line
of cars stretched more than five miles down the single lane road to the
remote desert range about 320 kilometers (200 miles) south of Los
Alamos.
Visitors came to get closer to history or to buy commemorative
T-shirts. But everywhere were those who could find nothing to smile
about.
``I wept. I am a little troubled. I feel very sad,'' said Dildar
Gartenberg, wearing a green headband bearing the phrase ``Stop
Plutonium.''
The Berkeley, California, woman struggled to rein in her tears as she
stood not far from a cluster of fellow protesters walking around the
monument in sandals, robes and flowing garments.
The protesters, who remained peaceful despite occasional shouting
matches with other visitors, sang in an attempt to heal what they
called the earth's first ``atomic wound.''
The sparsely vegetated circle marking the blast site was covered with
people snapping photos of historical markers, including a replica of
Fat Man, the bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan.
Koga Taketoshi, a senior director with the Japan Broadcasting Corp.,
said he was trying to remain impartial while working on a documentary
about the bomb's effects on Nagasaki.
``I know many people died. When I see something like the Fat Man bomb,
it's kind of an emotional feeling,'' he said through an interpreter.
Larry Luedke of Albuquerque said he believes the decision to use the
bomb saved the life of his father, a soldier who was preparing to ship
out to Japan when the United States dropped the bomb on Hiroshima on
Aug. 6, 1945.
Brent and Buffy Farlie of Albuquerque said they wanted their sons to
understand the origins of the nuclear legacy they would eventually
inherit.
``It's real scary,'' said Morgan, one of their boys.
