US, Zimbabwe presidents cover trade and security 
Investment and trade figured in talks between Zimbabwe's President
Robert Mugabe and US President Bill Clinton when the two met for over
two hours at the White House, the US administration said.
The two leaders met for two and a half hours and "welcomed the growing
cooperation between the two countries and discussed ideas to enhance
increased trade and investment opportunities," White House press
secretary Michael McCurry said in a statement.
Mugabe "encouraged the president to help find avenues for investment in
the economy of Zimbabwe," McCurry said.
Clinton "stressed that we would be seeking opportunities for our
companies to participate in bidding on contracts and other issues,"
McCurry said.
Peace keeping operations and the situation in Mozambique and Angola
also came up during the talks, McCurry said.
The two men met alone for about 30 minutes in the Oval Office before
being joined by their aides for further discussions and a working lunch
at the White House, said a US official who spoke on the condition of
anonymity.
The official said the two leaders dicussed Zimbabwe's economic reforms
that were begun in the early 1990s with International Monetary Fund
assistance but have made only slight progress.
Washington has budgeted only 30 million dollars for Harare in the
current fiscal year, but the US official said that given stiff
Republican opposition to foreign aid even that sum was in jeopardy.
"We will make clear to him that in the current budget climate, US
assistance will go almost exclusively to countries firmly on the path
of democracy and democratic and economic reforms," the official said
"Countries in Africa need to realize that," he added.
Mugabe's session with Clinton marked the fourth time he has met with a
US president. He had met with Republicans Ronald Reagan and George Bush
as well as Democrat Jimmy Carter.
Mugabe was scheduled to leave Washington late Friday after meeting with
several members of Congress.
