Peres named prime minister to form peace government
Labour leader Shimon Peres was officially appointed as Israel's new
prime minister on Wednesday as President Ezer Weizman asked him to form
a government to advance the peace process.
Peres, accepting Weizman's appointment, pledged to work for peace with
neighbouring Arab countries and for a reconciliation between Israelis.
"At this difficult hour I thank you Mr. President for your help, and I
will make every effort to achieve peace with our neighbours and between
ourselves," Peres said.
The 72-year-old political veteran said he was ready to assume the task,
but added: "My heart is heavy at the thought of the circumstances which
have led to this.
"The loss of prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, let his name be blessed,
victim of a murderer's bullets, has left a people in tears and
suffering."
Weizman said: "After consulting for two days with representatives from
all the political factions I decided to confer on you the task of
forming a government."
The "overwhelming majority of parliamentary groups proposed" Peres as
new prime minister, following the assassination of Rabin on November 4,
he said.
Weizman, who has in past months criticized the autonomy accords with
the Palestinians in the wake of deadly anti-Israeli bombings, pledged
his "complete support for the continuation of the peace process."
In a brief and solemn ceremony at the president's offices, Weizman also
paid tribute to Rabin's memory saying he fell "victim to a criminal
hand, an act which has shattered our people.
"I hope with all my heart that we will be able to eradicate the false
conceptions which give birth to this disaster and that we will be able
to strengthen understanding and the unity of our people."
Weizman told journalists after the ceremony: "I believe we need a
government as broad as possible because the greater the support, the
more able he will be to take courageous decisions.
"But a national unity cabinet is not on the agenda."
Peres now has 21 days to form a new government, a period which could be
prolonged for a further 21 days. But sources said he was likely to
present his new line-up next week.
Political analysts believe Peres will follow Rabin's example and keep
the defence portfolio to give his government a strong image of
security, while ceding his post of foreign minister under Rabin.
The previous coalition had the backing of 63 out of the 120 deputies in
parliament: 44 Labour deputies, 12 from the left-wing Meretz, two
right-wing defectors and five from the Israeli-Arab minority parties.
Peres has already held talks to try to draw in some of the smaller
Jewish religious groups.
Rabin was assassinated by a Jewish fanatic at a peace rally in Tel
Aviv. Eight people, including self-confessed killer Yigal Amir, are
being held for an alleged plot to murder the Israeli leader.
