Israeli Government Boasts Victory on Statehood 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Tuesday credited his
government for compelling Palestinians delay statehood declaration.
He added that Israel will continue to oppose any unilateral declaration
of a Palestinian state in the future.
At a crowded news conference in his office, Netanyahu said Palestinian
National Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat backed down from a plan to
declare statehood on Tuesday because "he understands that we will
respond very firmly."
Flanked by Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon and Defense Minister Moshe
Arens, he said, for the last four years, Israel has been telling Arafat
not to declare a Palestinian state unilaterally. "Now he wisely backed
off," Netanyahu said.
Arafat has said in the past that the Palestinians have the right to
declare an independent state on May 4, the date by which Israel and the
Palestinians are supposed to have reached a permanent agreement
according to the Oslo accords.
But the international community has urged him to hold off such a move
since it might destroy the already troubled peace process and drive
Israeli voters to elect a hard-line government to power in the May 17
elections.
The Palestinian Central Council, a 124-member Palestine Liberation
Organization leadership body, decided last week to postpone a decision
over statehood proclamation until after the Israeli elections.
However, Netanyahu pointed out the postponement was only temporary and
Arafat has left the door open for a new declaration.
"I want to make it clear that we'll continue to oppose any actions in
defiance of the treaties we have signed," Netanyahu said. These
unilateral actions are "unacceptable and illegal," he added.
"For the sake of the Palestinians, for the sake of peace and for the
sake of our common future, it is in the interests of the Palestinians
not to declare a state unilaterally on May 4 or any day at all," he
said.
The Israeli government has threatened to annex parts of the West Bank
still under its control if the Palestinians declare a state
unilaterally.
Sharon, the leading hawkish minister, reiterated this position at the
news conference.
Netanyahu added that if such a declaration is made, Israel would also
bar Israeli individuals or corporates from investing in the Palestinian
areas or demand Palestinian compensation for financial benefit it has
enjoyed from Israeli investment.
The prime minister denied that the tightening Israeli control over
Jerusalem, including demolition of Arab houses, confiscation of
Palestinian residencies and closure of Palestinian institutes, is also
a unilateral action banned by the Oslo agreements.
"The status of Jerusalem, as it stands now--under fully Israeli
sovereignty--, will be maintained until it is decided otherwise (in
future agreements with the Palestinians)," he said.
Therefore, he said, Israel is not violating the status quo of Jerusalem
and will "act to ensure the continuance of Israel's sovereignty over
the city."
The fate of Jerusalem, over which the Palestinians also claim
sovereignty, is supposed to be negotiated in the final-status talks,
which should have begun by May 1996 according to Oslo accords, but has
never happened.
Netanyahu is running a neck-and-neck campaign with One Israel leader
Ehud Barak in the runup to the May 17 elections. He has charged that
Barak will not stand as firmly as he does against a Palestinian state.
The opposition lashed out at Netanyahu over what they called his
attempt to turn a diplomatic failure into a victory, describing the
convening of the news conference is "nothing but election propaganda."
One Israel legislator Shlomo Ben-Ami said as a matter of fact, it is
Arafat who has gained international support for his postponement of a
declaration of statehood.
Center Party leader Yitzhak Mordechai said the Palestinians had agreed
to put off a unilateral declaration when they signed the Wye agreement
in Washington last October.
