EDITORS: DOHA, Qatar (BC-AP Sports Digest,0501) Jansher Khan continues
his defense of his Qatar International squash tournament title. Slug
Sports-Squash-Qatar International. Expected by 2000 GMT. SYDNEY,
Australia -- Floris Jan Bovelander strikes three times Tuesday as the
defending champion Netherlands downs South Korea 4-2 and seals a place
in the semifinals of the World Cup field hockey tournament. Slug
Sports-Field Hockey-World Cup. Has moved. GENEVA -- The International
Ski Federation hopes to announce venues for the delayed opening of the
men's World Cup season. Continuing warm weather and lack of snow in
much of Europe complicates the task. Slug Sports-Skiing-Men's World
Cup. Expected by 1800 GMT. BRISBANE, Australia -- Devastating
leg-spinner Shane Warne finished with a career-best haul of eight
wickets for 71 Tuesday as Australia rolled to a 184-run victory over
England in the first cricket Test at the Gabba Ground. Slug
Sports-Cricket-England-Australia. Has moved. JOHANNESBURG, South Africa
-- Simon Doull and Matthew Hart combine to take nine second-innings
wickets and lead New Zealand to a 137-run victory Tuesday over South
Africa on the last day of the first Test. Slug Sports-Cricket-South
Africa-New Zealand. Has moved. PHILADELPHIA -- Todd Eldredge has known
the glory of national titles. He's also experienced the agony of
failure when his career should be peaking. Slug Sports-Figure
Skating-Pro Am. Has moved. By Barry Wilner. KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Joe
Montana, whose tendency to get hurt was his only liability in recent
years, stood tall as seven starters on the Kansas City Chiefs went down
with injuries. Slug Sports-Football-Chiefs-Montana. Has moved. By Craig
Horst. Also: NEW YORK -- History will be on Miami's side when the
fourth-ranked Hurricanes play No. 1 Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. Slug
Sports-Football-Bowl Bids. Has moved. By Rick Warner. LEESBURG, Va. --
With little hope for a settlement at the bargaining table this week,
owners of U.S. Major League Baseball teams are prepared to impose their
salary cap plan when they meet Monday in Chicago. Slug
Sports-Baseball-US Strike. Has moved. Update expected by 2000 GMT.
