Jury to see graphic autopsy pictures in Simpson case 
The judge in the O.J. Simpson murder trial ruled Wednesday that jurors
will be allowed to see autopsy pictures of the victims, a decision the
prosecution hailed as a major victory.
Judge Lance Ito waved aside objections from the defense that the grisly
photos of Nicole Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman would inflame
and outrage the jurors.
"It's unlikely that anyone would look at these photos and not get sick
to their stomach," defense attorney Robert Shapiro argued.
But the prosecution contended that the pictures of the savagely stabbed
bodies were necessary to prove the 47-year-old former football star
committed the June 12 killings.
Prosecutor Brian Kelberg said the jurors needed to see the photos to
understand how the murders took place. He described how the killer
probably stepped on Nicole Simpson's back, pulled her head back by her
hair and slashed her throat so viciously it nearly severed her head.
In his written decision, Ito acknowledged that the photos were
"horrible" and "terrible," and rejected five for being redundant.
The importance of the 41 other photos, he said however, outweighed any
potential prejudice.
Simpson, who has pleaded not guilty to the murders, declined to be
present at the hearing on the autopsy photos.
Meanwhile, attorneys from both sides continued to wrangle over the
physical evidence collected after the slashed and blood-spattered body
of Simpson's 35-year-old ex-wife and her 25-year-old friend who were
found outside her condominium in a posh Los Angeles neighborhood.
The defense has charged investigators with contaminating the blood and
tissue samples from the murder scene and Simpson's estate through poor
collection.
Because there were no eyewitnesses, the prosecution's case rests
entirely on the physical evidence containing the DNA which its medical
experts say matches that of Simpson.
If convicted, Simpson faces a life sentence without parole. Prosecutors
announced they were not seeking the death penalty.
Simpson contends that he was practicing golf, sleeping and then heading
for the airport for a prescheduled flight to Chicago at the time
murders were committed.
