Defense Starts Closing Argument at Lockerbie Trial
The defense lawyers, who only have to establish "beyond reasonable
doubt" doubts in the case of the prosecution. The trial, being heard
under Scottish law, requires the prosecution to bear the brunt of
testimony.
The defense on Thursday said that the prosecution had failed to prove
that the explosive device was introduced in Malta.
The prosecution alleges that defendants Abdel Basset Ali al- Megrahi
and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah worked as Libyan Arab Airlines employees in
Malta and sent an unaccompanied suitcase bomb onto a Frankfurt-bound
plane from the island state. The explosive device was then transferred
onto the doomed Pan Am Flight 103.
The prosecution charges the two defendants with murdering 259 people
aboard the New York-bound plane and 11 others on the ground when the
bombed plane crashed near the Scottish town of Lockerbie on December
21, 1988.
Defense Attorney William Taylor said that prosecutors had ignored
"relevant evidence that points away" from the two defendants. The
defense team has been blaming a Palestinian terrorist group for the
mid-air bombing while the two defendants plead innocent about what they
are charged with.
In a raid in Germany a few months before the Pan Am bombing, police
uncovered explosives, unused Lufthansa luggage tags, a Pan Am flight
schedule and bombing devices similar to those found during the
Lockerbie investigation.
The prosecution, however, argues that the bomb parts found in Germany
are not as sophisticated as those found in the Pan Am Flight 103
wreckage though the defense refuted that "the difference is less than
decisive".
The Scottish judges sitting at a special Scottish courtroom set up in
the Netherlands have asked the defense to keep its closing argument
short but no time limit was set. Deliberations are expected to begin
next week and court officials say a verdict could come in a week or
two.
The court will hand down one of three verdicts: guilty, not guilty and
not proven. Any verdict other than that of guilty will set the two
Libyans free.
The Lockerbie trial, that went underway on May 3 last year after almost
12 years of investigation and preparation, has heard 235 witnesses, of
whom 232 were called to testify by the prosecution.
The defense only called in three witnesses and surprisingly concluded
its procedure after having failed to acquire a key letter from Syria to
prove the link between the Palestinian extreme groups and the bombing.
