Pacific rim states criticize nuclear testing
Eleven countries bordering the Pacific on Monday submitted a resolution
to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) conference criticizing
nuclear testing, but not mentioning France by name.
The conference, which is expected to be marked by controversy over
France's decision to resume testing in the South Pacific, opened Monday
at the agency's Vienna headquarters.
Signed by 11 of the IAEA's 122 member countries the resolution deplores
nuclear tests and calls on states with nuclear programmes to refrain
from carrying them out.
The resolution, sponsored by Chile, Ecuador, Mexico and Venezuela, and
seconded by Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam,
Australia and New Zealand, will be put to a vote of the plenary session
on Thursday or Friday.
Although France is not directly mentioned, the resolution is bound to
be seen as inspired by the French tests.
Many of the countries pushing the motion have been among the most vocal
critics of the French move, announced in June by President Jacques
Chirac.
During Monday's opening session both the IAEA director-general, Hans
Blix, and Japan's Science and Technology Minister, Yasuoki Urano,
appealed for a halt to all testing, but they also refrained from naming
France.
"Japan emphatically calls for the cessation of all nuclear testing and
shall spare no efforts to ensure that negotiations on the comprehensive
nuclear test ban treaty are successfully completed as early as
possible," Urano said.
"It is most regrettable that nuclear tests are still being conducted in
defiance of this agreement, and a strong global desire for the
cessation of all nuclear testing," he added.
Japan has been one of France's biggest critics since the resumption of
tests on Mururoa atoll. A first test took place on September 5, and up
to seven more are planned.
The comprehensive test ban treaty is due to be concluded next year and
Paris has pledged to sign it and abide by it.
Meanwhile France has offered to increase foreign aid to the Pacific
region and consider signing a nuclear-free zone treaty, French
Cooperation Minister Jacques Godfrain said after meeting delegates from
the South Pacific Forum in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea.
He also said the IAEA would send a mission to Mururoa atoll and that
both Australia and New Zealand, which strongly oppose the tests, would
be part of it.
Responding to the French offer, Director General Blix said the
composition of the team and its working remit had to be established
before any decision was taken to accept the offer.
