Publicity rages as Oklahoma City bombing trial gears up
The trial of Oklahoma City bombing suspect Timothy McVeigh begins on
March 31 but reports about his alleged confessions have been appearing
in the US media almost daily.
McVeigh's trial is likely to be the US courtroom drama of the year and
several thousand journalists are expected to descend on Denver,
Colorado to cover it.
The April 19, 1995 blast, considered the worst terrorist attack on US
soil, killed 168 people and injured more than 500, bringing home to
Americans that terrorism was now a domestic problem.
While a publication ban has prevented prosecution and defense attorneys
from discussing the case, there is no such gag order on the press,
whose freedom of expression was upheld by a 1976 Supreme Court ruling.
The latest issue of the weekly newsmagazine Newsweek reports that
McVeigh, 28, who has pleaded not guilty, confirmed his role in the
truck bombing in a lie detector test administered by his own lawyers.
The magazine also outlined several aspects of the charges against the
former soldier, which prompted his lawyer, Stephen Jones, to remark
that he was "glad to see the outlines of their case."
Last week, the monthly magazine Playboy said it had defense documents
showing McVeigh's movements and statements on the day before the
bombing of the federal government building and his preparations in the
months leading up to it.
Time magazine reported the FBI is searching for a third man in
connection with the bombing case who is linked to McVeigh and his
alleged accomplice Terry Nichols.
The weekly magazine said the third man, identified as Robert Jacques,
was reportedly seen in Cassville, Missouri in the fall of 1994 with
McVeigh and Nichols.
The Dallas Morning News kicked off the spate of recent stories with a
report that McVeigh told his lawyers the Oklahoma City bombing last
year was planned for the morning to kill as many people as possible.
The Texas daily posted the story on the Internet the day before
publishing it in its March 1 issue, setting off a firestorm of
publicity including denials by Jones.
In the wake of the publicity, Jones charged that McVeigh's right to a
fair trial was threatened.
But Judge Richard Matsch in Denver, Colorado, on Monday rejected Jones'
motions to delay the trial for a year or move it to a remote location
such as the states of Alaska or Hawaii or the territory of Puerto Rico.
