McDonnell Douglas bids to crack Indian market 
United States-based aircraft manufacturer McDonnell Douglas said Monday
it would showcase its MD-90 jetliner in India in an effort to get a
foothold in the market.
The company, following in the paths of rivals Boeing Co. and Airbus
Industrie, announced it would show the plane, which it claims is the
quietest in the world, in Bombay and New Delhi.
"The MD-90 is an advanced mid-size, medium-range twin jet aircraft,
that can seat 153 passengers and is the quietest commercial aircraft in
the world and the cleanest in its class environmentally," said a
company statement issued here.
The company is also currently trying to sell its 300-seater M-11 to Air
India.
McDonnell Douglas said the aircraft would be flown into India in a
couple of weeks for the demonstration flights.
"We are thrilled to be bringing an MD-90 to India. It is a great
aircraft that will impress many people," vice-president Donald Black
said.
McDonnell Douglas said the India stop-over was part of a demonstration
tour which also included visits to the Farnborough Air Show in England
and to Turkey before the aircraft was delivered to China Northern
Airlines.
"The MD-90 is powered by two V2500 turbofans which, combined with the
aircraft design, help make the jetliner the quietest commercial
aircraft in the skies," said the statement.
"In addition, the aircraft is designed to be more fuel efficient while
reducing emission levels to well below international standards."
A company public relations consultant said the MD-90 entered commercial
service in 1992 and about 100 jetliners were being operated by various
airlines.
Boeing and Airbus Industrie of Europe have already established a niche
in India. A recent Airbus Industrie survey said about 200 aircraft
worth 15 billion dollars would be bought by airlines in India, "which
is the biggest market in south Asia", between 1996 and 2014.
Airbus Industrie, Boeing and McDonnel Douglas are in competition for
the state-owned Air India's current order of 23 medium capacity
long-range aircraft worth three billion dollars.
Aviation industry analysts said the Indian subcontinent was seeing
annual air passenger traffic growth of at least seven percent, while
the global average was 5.1 percent.
India's state-owned Air India, Indian Airlines -- which flies internal
routes -- and various private airlines rely heavily on either Boeing or
Airbus aircraft.
