UN chief gives go-ahead to deploy 7,000 peacekeepers in Angola
Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali gave the green light Monday to
prepare for full deployment of 7,000 UN peacekeepers in Angola in May.
In a letter to the Security Council, the UN chief stressed however that
all the preconditions set out by the world body for such a deployment
-- an effective ceasefire, and for the parties to provide military data
and designate zones to which troops would be pulled back -- "have not
been fully met."
Still, the UN chief wrote, "with a view to avoiding dangerous delays in
the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol which might destabilize
conditions on the ground, I have decided that it would be in the best
interest of the peace process to proceed with preparations for the
deployment of United Nations infantry units to Angola."
"I fully realize that there are certain risks involved" in this
decission, Boutros-Ghali added.
The Security Council decided February 8 to create the UN Verification
Mission in Angola (UNAVEM III), and several hundred troops already are
on the ground.
But Boutros-Ghali had to approve the deployment of the bulk of the
force, particularly the infantry units due to be deployed May 9.
The UN chief underscored in his letter to the council that without full
cooperation from the Angolan government and UNITA rebels, "it would not
be possible to ensure that the deployment of United Nations infantry to
Angola would begin in May."
He wrote that Angolan President Eduardo dos Santos and UNITA leader
Jonas Savimbi had maintained they were "fully committed to the
implementation of the Lusaka Protocol and are strongly in favour of the
accelerated deployment of all United Nations troops.
"They undertook to create the political, military and logistic
conditions conducive to such a deployment," he wrote.
Current council president Li Zhaoxing of China said after council
consultations that members were concerned about the situation in Angola
and that they would continue to address the issue in the coming days.
UN envoy Ismat Kittani travelled to Angola last week to relay to
Savimbi and Dos Santos UN concerns about the fragile ceasefire and the
parties' less-than-complete cooperation with UNAVEM III.
