New guide warns Americans: "Don't Go Europe!"
The French are mean, the Swiss are boring and Italy is dirty and full
of nasty old ruins, according to a new tongue-in-cheek guide which
advises Americans against setting foot in the Old World.
"Don't Go Europe!" cautions the uninitiated traveler that "Europe
offers nothing that can't be found within the comfort of your own local
fast food establishment."
Author Chris Harris also tells the "ugly American" what his welcome is
likely to be.
"Europeans don't like you. They know you, thousands of pot-bellied
Polaroid-snapping, extra-ketchup-asking-for, polyester Hawaiian-shirted
ambassadors from our nation have preceded you," he writes.
Worse still, he warns, "over a hundred different languages are spoken
in Europe," where English is still lamentably considered a second
language.
Not only is peanut butter scarce on the Continent, Europeans are all
"smokaholics." Their motto: "If you're old enough to breathe, you're
old enough to smoke."
But Harris does look on the bright side, noting: "Fortunately the smell
is somewhat hidden because Europeans don't believe in deodorant."
Not even French food is sacred in the book, which describes the "unique
way" chefs "give animals like snails, pigeons and frogs fancy names,
thus transforming common backyard pests into expensive delicacies."
This disguised slop is then served to "gullible tourists who will eat
anything they can't pronounce," writes Harris, who cites "pate de foie
gras" as the worst abuse, calling it a "mushed-up pile of liverwurst."
Nor is the City of Light spared.
"Paris is a great city," writes Harris, adding however that the "one
mistake was to put it in France."
Fortunately, there is always EuroDisney, which he says is exactly the
same as the original Disneyland -- except that it's empty.
In Italy, the land of Lazy-faire economics, the book says "When in
Rome, do as the Romans do. That is, do nothing." It also describes
Venice as "the only city in the world whose major attraction is a
flooded sewer system."
Harris also advises visitors not to miss the Piazza del Pigeon
Droppings where one can "watch the legendary Winged Rats of Venice
magically turn bread crumbs into little squirts of sticky white stuff."
Misguided tourists will also flock to see the "faulty architecture" of
the Tower of Pisa and the "dirty pile of broken-down ruins" in Rome.
The Spanish have an odd habit of closing everything down in the middle
of the day, according to Harris, who says that every day is a "siesta"
and every night a "fiesta," except for Thursday morning when some work
is done.
The beaches on the Costa Brava would be nice except for the hoards of
"nutty Germans" who get up at 5:00 a.m. to beat the British tourists to
the best spots "to relax a little and work on their burn."
The Swiss have a special ban on "noise, kids and fun," though signs
everywhere read "all major credit card accepted," according to the
160-page guide published by Contemporary Books in Chicago, Illinois.
In fact the only thing there is to do is look at your watch, which
explains why that little item is so popular in Switzerland.
In Geneva, everything closes at 5:00 p.m. and the average Swiss is as
old as crude oil. Still, the book does acknowledge having heard of one
American who visited Switzerland and said he would "never be able to
eat this American cheese again."
And German cuisine is "unique in the world for combining both lousy
taste and an incredible lack of nutritional value."
