NEW DELHI, India _ India's state-owned railroad company, one of the biggest in
the world, plans to offer investment contracts worth nine billion rupees
(dlrs 290 million) to private investors, a newspaper reported Tuesday. To
attract private investors to spend on modernizing its tracks, communication
systems and buildings, the Indian Railways, is offering a five-year tax
break on profits, The Observer of Business and Politics reported. Such tax
breaks were earlier provided by the government for companies investing in
other infrastructure areas. As the government tries to lower its fiscal
deficit, the railways have come under pressure to spend less.  ___ KUALA
LUMPUR, Malaysia _ George Kent Malaysia Ltd. will build a water meter
manufacturing plant in Indonesia and a water meter assembly plant in
Vietnam, its chairman said Tuesday. The dlrs 5 million Indonesia plant is
expected to be ready in the first quarter of 1996 while the one in Vietnam,
costing dlrs 10 million, would be set up by the end of that year, Tan Kay
Hock told reporters. He said the investments were the beginning of his
company's regional expansion and the potential in these two countries could
help it achieve ``a quantum leap in the water meter business in the coming
years.'' George Kent, whose plant outside Kuala Lumpur produces 800,000
water meters annually, also hopes to secure similar projects in the
Philippines and China, he said. ___ KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia _ The tiny
Pacific Ocean nation of the Solomon Islands Tuesday asked Malaysia to
assist it in exploring for oil, a Malaysian minister said. Solomon Islands
has compiled geological data to determine the feasibility of such a
venture, and has invited the Malaysian National Petroleum Corp., to study
it, Abang Abu Bakar, minister in the prime minister's office,
said. Speaking to reporters after talks with the visiting Solomon Islands
Foreign Minister Danny Philip, Abu Bakar said the farming nation had the
potential to become an oil and gas producing country but did not have the
expertise. The Solomon Island's Department of Natural Resources is amending
mining and petroleum laws to make it easier for foreign companies to
participate in the industries, Abu Bakar said.  Philip also asked Malaysian
companies to help in infrastructure developments like the construction of
roads and buildings, Abu Bakar said. Solomon Islands comprises six main
islands and countless small ones. A majority of its 230,000 people depend
on farming, timber and fishing. ___ SINGAPORE _ Pan Malayan Holdings Ltd.,
the investment holding and property arm of Singapore-listed Tat Lee Bank
Ltd., plans to acquire a 10 percent equity stake in the Australian Housing
and Land Group of companies. Earlier in the day, Singapore's DBS Land Ltd.
announced that it would take a 60 percent stake in the same group. The
Australian Housing and Land Group's primary activities are developing
residential property in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western
Australia, Pan Malayan said in a statement Monday. Pan Malayan, which
bought the stake for 12 million Australian dollars (dlrs 8.6 million), paid
the money Monday, financing it through bank borrowings.  ___ SINGAPORE _
C.K.Tang Ltd., a prominent retailer in downtown Singapore, reported that
its pretax loss for the year ended March 31 amounted to 14.6 million
Singapore dollars (dlrs 10.5 million). The company blamed the unchanged
losses from the previous year on the stiff competition in the crowded
retail sector. In a statement Monday, the company said it expects difficult
trading conditions in the industry to continue. Cost cutting measures and
more focus on the merchandise is now being implemented, said C.K.Tang. The
net loss was 17.8 million dollars (dlrs 12.8 million) compared to 13.7
million dollars (dlrs 9.8 million) in the previous year. ___ HONG KONG _
Ford says it has unveiled its prototype for a Chinese-American car at a
Shanghai auto show. The design marries its modified 1996 Ford Taurus and
Mercury Sable, and was drawn up in consultation with Chinese engineers,
said a statement Tuesday. If Chinese officials approve it, Ford will
manufacture the car in Shanghai, it said.
