Commonwealth still divided over Zimbabwe action plan
Commonwealth leaders were divided Monday over the group's formal response
to dealing with political violence in Zimbabwe, as the Zimbabwean
opposition accused them of outright failure.
"There can be no question of Mugabe being allowed to stay in power with
a rigged election," British Prime Minister Tony Blair told reporters
here.
"That has been Britain's position throughout," he said, adding the
accord struck at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM)
here merely "suspends the day of judgement on Zimbabwe."
New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark was also critical as the accord
was released jointly by Australian Prime Minister John Howard and
Commonwealth Secretary-General Don McKinnon.
Clark, a vocal member of the pro-sanctions lobby, appeared to be at
odds with Canadian leader Jean Chretien, who acknowledged that
political realities prevented punitive action against Harare.
Clark slammed the deal on how to deal with Zimbabwe as weak and
inadequate.
"New Zealand has made it clear we don't think the expression of concern
is strong enough with respect to the Zimbabwean government's actions,"
Clark said.
"The communique reads a little like everyone is responsible for the
violence and intimidation. That is not the case."
Clark emerged as one of the most vociferous proponents of imposing
sanctions against the regime of President Robert Mugabe over human
rights abuses during the CHOGM summit at this Australian coastal resort
town.
Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) condemned
the decision saying it would lead to more bloodshed.
"The Commonwealth is basically saying they believe there can be a fair
and free election which means they don't care about all the violence
and killing which has already occurred in Zimbabwe," said MDC
spokeswoman Sekai Holland.
"This is the green light for him to carry on as he has been doing with
no Commonwealth protection for the people of Zimbabwe."
"We came to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting to get action
and instead we get words and nothing else," she added.
But Australian Prime Minister Howard, also a key supporter of moves to
impose sanctions, along with Britain's Blair, had little choice as the
current chairman of the Commonwealth leadership group but to accept the
terms of the deal.
Howard said it provided a "credible mechanism" for dealing with the
political violence wracking Zimbabwe in the lead-up to the March 9-10
elections pitting President Robert Mugabe against opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai.
"At the end of the day you have to find a mechanism that accommodates a
large number of views within the Commonwealth," Howard said.
Chretien said the agreement was the best that could be reached given
the deep divisions with the ranks of the 54-nation Commonwealth.
"We have observers there and it was quite premature to conclude before
the elections and that position prevailed eventually," Chretien said.
"Being a realist, I thought it (sanctions) would be impractical before
the elections."
Under the terms of the accord, the leaders of Australia, South Africa
and Nigeria will have the power to suspend or impose sanctions on
Zimbabwe pending the outcome of an observers report on the presidential
election.
The observers' report will form the basis of the Commonwealth's
decision on what action, if any, will be taken against Harare.
"What we all need to do now for Zimbabwe is help that country, which is
already going down economically and socially," Nigerian President
Olusegun Obasanjo, who led the anti-sanctions push, told journalists.
"I am a fair man. I believe that anybody who believes Zimbabwe should
be suspended (from the Commonwealth) before the election is not fair.
Obasanjo said the question of whether he would be comfortable imposing
sanctions against the Mugabe regime if the observers return a negative
assessment of the fairness of the election was irrelevant.
"It's not a question of being uncomfortable or uncomfortable," he said.
"Whatever has to be done must be done. We have been given a task to
perform and we have to perform it."
