France braces for snap elections
France was bracing for an expected announcement by President Jacques
Chirac on Monday of snap legislative elections, in what could be a huge
political gamble for the Gaullist leader.
France's two main televion channels said in their Sunday evening
bulletins that Chirac would appear on television the following evening
to announce the dissolution of parliament.
For the stations -- who would be charged with organising the
presidential address and who can therefore be considered well-informed
-- there was no longer any room for doubt concerning Chirac's
intentions.
However, the Elysee would neither confirm nor deny the information.
Chirac, who took the weekend to weigh his decision, met with his
closest advisers Sunday evening, sources in his entourage said.
Leader of the opposition Socialist Party Lionel Jospin said that if
Chirac does call early elections it would be an "admission of failure"
of his government.
Jospin suggested the move might be motivated by the wish to go to the
country before potentially-damaging cases of alleged corruption hanging
over several leading figures from the ruling coalition can be brought
to court.
Speculation that the elections would be brought forward from their
original date of March next year has had Paris political circles in a
frenzy for the past two weeks.
The two-round elections, which must happen between 20-40 days after the
formal dissolution decree is signed, are thought most likely to be
scheduled for June 1 and 8.
Premier Alain Juppe said he was "ready" for ballots whenever they come,
according to the Journal du Dimanche weekly newspaper.
"A politician must always be ready," he was quoted by the paper as
saying.
French markets dropped sharply at the end of last week, and more
turmoil is expected if Chirac confirms the decision Monday night.
The main reason for an early dissolution is widely agreed to be Europe
union. If elections were held early next year, they would come barely a
month before the final deadline on countries to enter the first wave of
the planned European single currency, the euro.
Government officials fear the elections then would become a referendum
on the euro, an issue on which the French remain divided despite the
apparent consensus among political leaders.
Chirac, who has plumbed depths of unpopularity since taking power in
May 1995, is also seen keen to "relaunch" his ailing government, in
theory to give him parliamentary support through the end of his
seven-year mandate in 2002.
Analysts point out that the ruling centre-right coalition, which routed
the left in 1993 elections, cannot hope to retain its 80 percent
majority in the 577-seat National Assembly, but may consider it will
lose fewer seats now than later.
But the gamble involved in snap ballots was underlined Sunday by a new
poll suggesting that French voters may be ready to express their
frustrations at Juppe's and Chirac's austerity policies in the ballot
box.
The survey by the IFOP polling institute showed support for both Chirac
and Juppe dropping again to 31 and 27 percent respectively, echoing
recent polls suggesting that a socialist-communist alliance could even
seize a majority.
In that case Chirac, far from relaunching his government for the next
five years, would be forced into "cohabitation" with a leftwing prime
minister, most likely to be Jospin.
Jospin, who put up a strong fight against Chirac in the 1995
presidential polls, said in a TV interview Sunday night that the left
could unite to win.
"I think we can come together around this campaign," he said, referring
to his party and communists putting aside their differences, notably
over Europe, to fight the ruling centre-right bloc.
He dismissed the argument that early elections were needed to avoid a
clash of interests next year with the timetable for European monetary
union, saying the motives were more cynical.
"The economic situation is going to get worse, with unemployment and
deficits, they're trying to make the French vote before the situation
gets worse," he said.
