Xinjiang's purge on terrorists, separatists nets 1,700 in five days 
Chinese police in the often turbulent northwestern region of Xinjiang
netted 1,700 suspected terrorists, separatists and criminals in the
first six days of it anti-crime purge, reports reaching Beijing on
Monday said.
The arrest binge, from April 25 to 30, uncovered 200 violent and
mafia-like gangs, 1.1 tonnes of explosives, 92 guns and illicit money
and goods valued at 7.7 million yuan (927,000 US dollars), according to
Li Fengzi, the head of Xinjiang's politics, science and law commission.
Among the 1,400 criminal cases that came to light, 600 were major and
serious cases, and 1,100 gang members were detained, Li told the
Xinjiang Daily.
An editorial carried in the same edition warned "some evil forces and a
tiny minority of ethnic (Moslem) splittists" were working against the
government in disrupting social order.
"They have disrupted public order, especially some evil gangs that
engage in violent activities ... and the key issue now is how to
continue the struggle," it said.
Xinjiang -- the name translates as new frontier -- is predominately
Moslem and borders onto five Moslem states, including three in central
Asia that gained their independence through the collapse of the Soviet
Union.
In the past, sporadic uprisings against Beijing have been routinely
silenced, except for a short period from 1944 to 1950, during the
Chinese civil war, when the state of East Turkestan emerged in
Xinjiang.
But the separatist movement has regained stength of late and an earlier
Xinjiang Daily editorial slammed the "revived dynamism" and
"intensified infiltrative, splittist and subversive activities" of the
independence seekers.
Although Beijing insists that the splittists are in a tiny minority,
Moslem activists in exile in neighboring Kazakhstan say their
supporters number more than a million and that 27 secret organisations
are active in the Chinese territory.
"We must pay attention to the plottings of these gangs and attack them
with a heavy blow as soon as they start their activities, " Wang
Lequan, the highest ranking official in Xinjiang, told the newspaper.
"We must launch a fatal attack on the splittist ethnic forces, without
mercy," he added.
Last month, China signed a treaty with Russia, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan
and Kyrgyzstan to demilitarize their mutual border. According to
diplomats in Beijing, the deal was also aimed at encouraging China's
neighbours to help crack down on Moslem separatists operating in exile.
