Strong Regional Ties Vital To Reduce Poverty, Says Muluzi 
President Bakili Muluzi of Malawi urged southern African nations Friday
to reduce their dependence on Western aid by strengthening regional
ties.
Muluzi said millions of Africans who sought better lives were bound to
poverty by a lack of economic cooperation between neighbors and a
shortage of homegrown technical expertise.
Meaningful development was only possible through regional economic
integration, Muluzi told a meeting of the Southern African Development
Community (SADC), an 11-nation economic bloc.
''It has now been recognized that one of the ways to address (our)
constraints is for member states to develop a culture of technology and
mobilize their own resources to reduce dependence on aid,'' he said.
The meeting, known as a consultative conference, is an annual gathering
of southern African government representatives and donors aimed at
reviewing the region's development needs.
Muluzi said Africans knew Western governments were under political
pressure to cut desperately needed aid to Africa.
''We know that many taxpayers in donor nations recoiled in horror when
they saw their aid being used to pay for endless civil wars or
expensive white elephants,'' he said. ``We urge them not to abandon us
in this hour of need.''
Baroness Lynda Chalker, the British foreign office minister, said her
nation wanted to see aid flows replaced by commercial investment
throughout southern Africa.
But Britain would maintain its aid programs as long as necessary on
condition the aid was not stolen or skimmed off by corrupt officials,
she said.
On Thursday, SADC ministers forecast a 50 percent drop this year in
harvests of cereals, the region's staple food, because of poor seasonal
rains.
Even using strategic food stockpiles, the region could provide only an
estimated 12 million tons of grain, 4 million short of the projected
demand of 16 million tons, the ministers said.
Earlier, the ministers called for a conference of foreign donors before
the end of April to help avert hardships caused by food shortages.
Muluzi, elected last May in Malawi's first democratic polls, was chosen
in December to head the 23-nation Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa (COMESA), a broader trading and development bloc
criticized for duplicating some of the Southern African Development
Community's activities.
Only three members -- Malawi, Zambia and Tanzania -- have formally
joined COMESA, and others are waiting to see what South Africa, the
region's largest economy, decides.
Organizers of the Lilongwe talks say delegates will examine the
differing roles of the two groups ahead of a joint summit this year.
SADC members are Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique,
Namibia, Tanzania, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The
group was formed in 1980 to reduce economic dependence on South Africa,
then under white rule, by its black-governed neighbors.
