Elections underway in areas where fraud suspected in first round 
Albanians voted Sunday in 17 constituencies where massive fraud was
alleged in earlier elections that gave an easy victory for President
Sali Berisha's conservative party.
Turnout stood between 40 and 60 percent at 3:00 p.m. (1300 GMT), eight
hours after polling stations opened, the vice president of the central
election commission Nestor Terecka told AFP. He said there were no
incidents reported.
Observers from France, Greece, Italy and Austria were monitoring the
vote in this impoverished Balkan state ruled by for decades by a
Stalinist regime until 1990.
Some 600 polling stations were to remain open until 10:00 p.m. (2000
GMT) so that 350,000 or so registered voters could choose between
candidates from six political parties.
The six main opposition parties, headed by the ex-communist Socialist
Party, have called for a boycott of Sunday's voting.
The opposition pulled out of the general election as the first round
ballot was in progress on May 26 and boycotted the June 2 second round
completely.
The election commission announced after the first round that the vote
would be retaken in four constituencies where international monitors
found the most serious irregularities.
But a few days later, Berisha added 13 more constituencies, after
several countries, including the United States, suggested the election
be rearranged in several of the biggest constituencies.
On Saturday Albania's Constitutional Court rejected a plea by
opposition parties to postpone Sunday's voting.
The head of the court, Rustem Gatja, said the country's electoral
commission had acted correctly after analysing the complaints received
from candidates and parties about the irregularities in the first two
rounds.
The appeal to the court was brought by the former communist Social
Democratic Party and the Democratic Alliance Party (PAD), which said
the polls should be postponed to enable agreement to be reached on new
elections under international supervision.
PAD secretary-general Arben Imani said after the court's ruling that
the opposition would use all legal means to achieve its aims of having
new elections in all 115 constituencies nationwide.
The electoral commission contested Friday an Organisation for Security
and Cooperation in Europe report on the election process, which it said
breached 32 of the 79 articles governing election law in the country.
