French captive in Sudan released 
A French national held by rebels in south Sudan for up to two years was
resting in a hospital here Wednesday after being released the day
before, officials said.
Jean-Pierre Klem, held by the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA),
arrived in Nairobi Tuesday, French foreign ministry spokesman Jacques
Rummelhardt said in Paris.
He was being treated in a hospital in the Kenyan capital and all visits
were banned, according to a notice on his room door.
The French embassy here and a nurse at the hospital said he seemed to
be in good health, but was tired and had to undergo some medical tests.
"The doctor will decide when he can receive visitors," said a nurse,
asking not to be named.
His brother, Gabriel Klem, told AFP he had spoken to Jean-Pierre by
telephone for the first time in 18 months. "His speech was a bit slow,
but he seems to be all right in his head," he said.
However, mystery still surrounded the exact circumstances of Klem's
release, with the French embassy treating the issue with great
sensitivity.
And it also remained unclear whether Klem had been held against his
will or not.
The French foreign ministry said Wednesday he had been detained by the
SPLA, but there has never been any ransom demand from the rebel group
which is fighting the Islamic regime in Khartoum.
Last year a SPLA official in Nairobi said Klem had joined the group
voluntarily, and had become one of its officers, repairing radios. The
SPLA has been fighting the Islamic Khartoum authorities for 10 years
demanding autonomy for the Christian and animist south.
On August 13 the foreign ministry said Klem had been held for nearly
two years, while on Wednesday Rummelhardt said he had been "held for
several months."
Other sources said Klem, a qualified electrician, was arrested by the
SPLA in March or April last year and had been held in the Yambio region
near the border with Zaire.
He arrived in Sudan at the end of 1994 after living for 10 years in the
Central African Republic.
France has worked with agencies including the International Committee
of the Red Cross (CIRC) to help free Klem. "We express gratitude to all
those who have contributed to the happy ending of this affair," said
Rummelhardt.
