We Enjoy Freedom to Believe or not Believe in Religion -- Interview With a Tibetan 
Soinam, a 60-year-old Tibetan, is not a member of the Chinese Communist
Party and does not believe in religion. But his wife is a devout
Buddhist, performing religious services and reciting scriptures every
day.
Soinam and his wife are regarded as a "model couple" in Kaxi Village in
the suburbs of Xigaze in the Tibet Autonomous Region.
Soinam, who served as the village head from 1966 through 1988, is
spending his retirement at home.
Asked whether he quarrels with his wife over religion, he shook his
head and said, "In my family we enjoy freedom to believe or not in
religion. Nobody interferes with others. Freedom of religious belief is
a government policy, and our family policy as well."
He took the reporter to his wife's Buddhist scripture hall, where there
is a niche for three figures of Buddha. Both sides of the niche are
lined with wooden shelves filled with Buddha figures and other
religious articles. There are various kinds of religious paintings on
the walls.
Soinam said that he has six sons and one daughter.
"None of my sons believe in religion, and yet my daughter believes in
Buddhism, but she is not as devout as her mother," he said, adding that
his daughter does not recite scriptures regularly.
His family of nine tills three ha of farmland and has bought a tractor
for 6,000 yuan.
"We have built a new house with nine rooms and have 10 tons of grain in
reserve. We sell five tons of grain to the government every year," he
said.
His family also has five cows, two oxen, two yaks, one mule, one
horse-drawn cart and 10 sheep.
Speaking of the livelihood of his fellow-villagers, he said that half
of the 100 households in the village have tv sets, and 10 percent have
color ones. The average income per person was 1,000 yuan last year.
"I think our relatively comfortable living standard was not granted by
Buddha, but is due to the implementation of the correct policy of the
government," he said.
"Every year I take part in only one religious activity, that is, a
ceremony to offer sacrifices to a ghost for protecting the woods," he
said.
"Although it is a religious activity, it is good for protecting the
woods. So, all the villagers and I are willing to take part," he said.
