You Haven't Seen Scenery Telluride Into This Town
Here's the kind of place Telluride is: During last summer's Telluride
Film Festival, which attracts the famous, almost-famous and achingly
creative from all over the world, a house, in the process of being
moved, stood stock-still, smack-dab in the middle of town. Two weeks
later, it was still there.
That wouldn't happen in Aspen or Vail. Indeed, Vail doesn't even have a
smack-dab middle, Aspen's is hard to find, and neither of the two would
tolerate such a mess for a minute. Not so with Telluride, a Victorian
town dating back to the middle 1800s that is populated by 1,300
year-round residents and, it seems, 13 billion daily tourists.
Once a booming mining town, later a center for the surrounding cattle
ranches, Telluride boasts, bar none, the most spectacular setting in
the United States. At some 8,700 feet, its main street, Colorado
Avenue, cuts a swath right through a peck of peaks reaching 13,000 feet
on the western side of the San Juan Mountains, the highest range in
North America. What a view: 360 degrees of eye-popping splendor, any
season, any time of day, any weather.
Aspen used to be a lot like Telluride is now; even after the rich
people invented long lift lines and puffy ski parkas, the town long
retained a bit of down-home, hippie funk. Now, it's all slick as sin,
but Telluride. ...
``Tell you what I think,'' a native said, half proudly, half
regretfully. ``Telluride is today's Aspen's yesterday.'' Huh? Well,
it's heading fult-tilt boogie toward Aspen's today. It has mostly rich
people now, and a few movie stars, but you can still chat with a
native, for instance, who grew up on a ranch down the road. ``Now, if
we'd owned it, I wouldn't be selling cookies today,'' he said. ``I'd be
in the south of France with a passel of supermodels on my lap.''
Of course, he doesn't actually live in Telluride, and that's the
downside of becoming like Aspen: The service people -- the waiters,
hair cutters, gas-station attendants -- those who make life sweet for
the rich, can no longer afford to live in Telluride, where a tiny
Victorian house on the sunny side of the street, one that might have
been a crib for naughty women in a more colorful era, might go for half
a million, while a slightly larger lists for $900,000, making places
like Aspen and Telluride commuter cities, just like, well, Manhattan.
The restaurants are fine, although the ratio of gourmet restaurant to
hungry persons is considerably lower than that of nearby Crested Butte,
and almost all are in buildings of some historical significance in this
National Historic District of a town. Excelsior Cafe offers tasty
Italian food, dandy people-watching tables and a sushi bar in back.
Pasta and sushi? Go figure. The Swede-Finn Hall features pool tables
downstairs and a million varieties of beer, from berry-brews to Bud.
Have one with some of the specialty appetizers, like the smoked Rocky
Mountain trout ($6.95) before digging into the bouillabaisse ($16.96.)
``The best? La Marmotte,'' says Hilary Thompson, co-owner of the
Telluride Gallery of Fine Art. ``Never had a bad meal there.'' It's
French, featuring fresh seafood, duck ``confit'' and other Provencal
fancies, and are you kidding? ``Of course'' you need a reservation.
This is ski season, remember?
Frequent visitor Claudia Brummett favors Compagna and 2210. ``And for a
great time, you can't beat Floradora,'' she says, while others vaunt
Sophio's Mexican food as the best in the San Juans. It's more
Southwestern than Tex-Mex, and the staff can be a little snippy, but
the food is tasty and reasonable. Well, for a ski town.
Good-natured piano tunes and foot-tapping jigs frequently waft up the
cellar stairs from O'Bannon's Irish Pub, but that which cometh blasting
forth from the Last Dollar Saloon frequently is heavy-metal mishmash.
MORE
