French Watchdog Raps State Enterprises for Wasting Money 
France's state financial watchdog, the Cour des Comptes, has rapped the
state enterprises of National Railway Company of France (SNCF) and
Electricity of France (EDF) of wasting money and poor management in
building a bullet train railway line and a major nuclear center.
The Cour des Comptes said in an annual report submitted Monday to
President Jacques Chirac and the two chambers of parliament that the
actual passenger numbers for a new bulletin train line, TGV-Nord, will
only be a third of what the SNCF promised when asking the state to
finance the project.
The daily newspaper Le Monde said that the annual report of Cour des
Comptes has always provided "a illumination on the malfunction of the
state, the local community and public enterprises," with "that of 1996
confirming this tradition."
The report, submitted by Pierre Joxe, president of Cour des Comptes,
said that the interior traffic in 1994 was lower than half of what the
SNCF predicted, and that the SNCF has tripled its estimations of the
traffic across the English Channel in 1997.
It accused SNCF of basing its estimations on "old data of four years
ago, while it could have used recent statistics available," in order to
obtain the rate of return to justify its investment in such a project.
The Cour des Comptes called on the government to re-examine a 1992
project to build a TGV line in northern France which was made with the
same method, while exposing "numerous violations of market rule" by the
state company, including ignoring the obligation of making
advertisements, bad management in biddings of competitive investment,
and little transparency in decision makings.
The Cour des Comptes also accused the EDF of turning what it first
promised to be a national energy providing center into an experimental
laboratory.
Given the failures and incidents in the functioning of the nuclear
super-generator Superphenix of the past 10 years in Creys-Malville,
department of Isere in central France, the Cour des Comptes is
questioning its "disputable choice" of a German partner in the project
and "gaps in its management."
The report said that from 1984 to 1996, this nuclear energy center has
worked for only 30 months, while the rest of the time was taken by
incidents, stoppage and recovery.
It estimated that the cost for the center is around 60 billion
francs(12 billion U.S. dollars) up to the year 2000, while that for its
dismantling will be about 15 percent of the cost of its construction.
