Chechen rebels give ground in Grozny, but deny defeat
Chechen rebels denied Tuesday that they had lost control of their last
strongholds inside the capital Grozny and said heavy fighting was
continuing in the south of the city.
Rebel fighters entering and leaving Grozny Tuesday dismissed insistent
reports that a large area of the Oktyabrsky district of southeastern
Grozny, including Minutka Square where the Chechen resistance had
maintained its headquarters, had been abandoned to the Russians.
Journalists in Grozny on Monday had reported that the rebels were just
clinging to the southeastern rim of the city after being pushed back by
intense Russian bombardments that left large parts of the city in
flames.
And on the road leading south out of the city there was a larger
movement of rebels than usual Tuesday. More armed Chechen fighters
could also be in the towns and villages south of the capital.
"I've never seen so many groups coming out. I usually see one or two
groups, but today there are far more than that," a resident, Sultan
Saltimurdov, said at Stary Atagi, a village just south of Grozny.
But small bands of the rebels were also heading back into Grozny on
Tuesday night and one fighter insisted that heavy fighting over key
districts of the city was continuing.
"Minutka is ours at night. During the day, it's theirs," one of them,
Shaman Bidaev, said.
Bidaev said there were successive waves of fighting overnight Monday,
with the Chechens retreating as Russian armour punched through their
lines, then counter-attacking with rocket-propelled grenades.
Another Chechen commando who spent the night at a command post on the
only road out of the city not under Russian control, said there had
been no unusual exodus of Chechens from the city. The road was heavily
bombed overnight Monday.
And not one of many Chechen soldiers interviewed by AFP would admit
that their side had suffered a serious defeat in the capital.
Small groups of soldiers making their way out of Grozny did not appear
to be in a state of retreat or panic. They said they were heading for
nearby villages for a few hours of much-needed rest before returning to
the city for another shift of fighting.
On Monday, the ITAR-TASS news agency had quoted Russian Defence
Minister Pavel Grachev as saying that his forces had crushed Chechen
separatist resistance in Grozny's last remaining rebel bastion around
Minutka square.
Tuesday Interfax quoted military sources in Moscow as saying Russia was
preparing to pull the bulk of its intervention force out of Chechnya,
leaving about 12,000 troops to fight the retreating Chechens.
A plan to withdraw the majority of Russia's 40,000 troops is being
drawn up by a special defence ministry commission in Moscow and is due
to be finalised in the coming days, Interfax said.
Interior Minister Viktor Yerin, whose special troops will now assume
the principal role in Chechnya, arrived in Chechnya Tuesday to
supervise the military operation, Russian officials said.
The Russian army rolled into tiny, mainly-Moslem Chechnya on December
11 to crush its unilateral three-year secession from Moscow.
A group of Russian experts who had visited Chechnya said Tuesday that
some 25,000 civilians had been killed since the Russian intervention
began.
According to official figures, more than 1,000 Russian soldiers are
also listed dead or missing in the conflict. The same figures also
claim that more than 5,000 Chechen fighters have been killed.
The Chechen capital has been under continuous Russian artillery,
infantry and bombing assault since the New Year weekend, and the rebel
forces of Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev have slowly been driven
back into a shrinking pocket of southeast Grozny.
The latest Russian push into southeastern Grozny is the second major
advance in a week.
Last week, they captured a strategic crossroads just south of Grozny,
giving them control of one of the only two roads still giving access to
the Chechen-controlled south of the country.
The Chechen rebels have been launching regular night attacks on Russian
armoured vehicles stationed at the crossroads, provoking blanket
artillery and bomb reprisals across the surrounding flat country and
roads.
There has been little apparent movement in other areas of the main
lines of the war stretching from Grozny into eastern Chechnya.
No major fighting has been reported at the towns of Argun and Gudermes,
which are controlled by the rebels but which are under constant threat
of Russian attacks.
