Doomed plane tapes record unknown sound just before explosion 
Flight recorders from a doomed TWA jumbo jet that plunged into the
Atlantic killing all 230 aboard detected a brief, unexplained sound
prior to the crash, a federal investigator said Thursday.
The cockpit voice recorder, which divers found late Wednesday along
with the flight data recorder in the waters off the coast of Long
Island, New York, captured a "brief fraction of a second sound just
prior to end of the tape," National Transportation Safety Board Vice
Chairman Robert Francis told reporters.
Francis said investigators, who were examining the tapes in Washington,
did not yet know what the sound was. He said the recording ended
abruptly 11-1/2 minutes after take-off.
"This is what the folks that are expert in doing this have gotten thus
far," Francis said.
The 31-minute tape recorded the crew conducting a normal preflight
check procedure and a normal departure from New York's John F. Kennedy
International Airport on July 17 as it took off for Paris.
Francis reported that 12 more bodies were recovered Thursday, bringing
the number of dead recovered to 126.
Federal Bureau of Investigation Assistant Director James Kallstrom told
reporters the downing had yet to be classified as a criminal
investigation, but that the FBI was treating it as if if were at this
point.
"We're not here to guess at what the answer is or to predict what this
stuff means. I think sooner than later we'll know that. And we'll be in
a position, we're not sitting here idling, we have a worldwide
investigation going on to try to figure this out," Kallstrom said.
"We haven't discounted any theories actually. We're still here. We know
there was a catastrophic explosion. It's caused by some sort of a bomb,
obviously," he said.
"We're not further describing how that where that would be whether it
was carried on or something hit the plane from outside and caused it to
explode or a mechanical problem that has nothing to do with terrorism
or criminality or something in the cargo that would have caused a
mechanical problem," he added.
Divers have been working in two quadrants roughly 16 kilometers (10
miles) off the Long Island coast where the bulk of the downed jumbo
jets scattered in the waters roughly 43 meters (120 feet) deep.
