Alex McCarty, a 19-year-old tribal member, is helping with the
painstaking and exacting work of creating an exquisitely detailed
diorama of an ancient longhouse village. The project is providing
McCarty, already a talented craftsman, an apprenticeship in tribal
history.
``I like the museum because it does not represent a lost culture,''
McCarty said. ``It's nice to look at the artifacts and know where they
come from. Before I started working here, I didn't have the
appreciation I do now. It's so intense, the things I know now about the
way we lived. It's the origin of us. Sometimes I just have to sit
there.''
Preserving that culture is a stated priority in the tribe's plans.
``Across the board, people on the reservation are interested in
controlled development,'' said Hottowe.
Renovating the harbor makes cultural as well as economic sense for a
tribe seeking to renew its bonds with the sea, said tribal manager
Smith.
In conjunction with the Battelle Marine Sciences Laboratory in Sequim,
Wash., the Makahs hope to create 3,000 private-sector jobs by the year
2020 through ``sustainable, environmentally friendly aquaculture.'' It
aims to be producing 20,000 metric tons of seafood a year by then.
Part of the harbor project's appeal is that the tribe won't have to
wait 25 years for jobs to be created. For example, a fish processing
plant that now handles four to five million pounds a year is expected
to handle up to nine million pounds after the marina is built.
In the winter, winds up to 100 miles per hour make the harbor dangerous
and keep fishermen from participating in winter fisheries. When
dredging is completed and the jetties and marina are built, they will
finally have a safe harbor, Simons said.
The marina could also help boost tourism in the modest way the tribe is
seeking.
``With a better marina, a new restaurant, a laundromat and showers,
people with yachts, sport fishermen and large sailboats will stop
here,'' bringing business to tribal artisans who now lack a nearby
market for their crafts, Simons said.
Even now, small cruise ships stop at Neah Bay for a few hours while
their 200 to 300 passengers tour the museum. A better marina will
attract more, and tribal guides will lead them to the beaches and
bluffs to watch whales and rare birds.
The tribe also expects to benefit from the Olympic Coast National
Marine Sanctuary, dedicated this summer, which stretches from just off
the reservation south past Olympic National Park.
``More species of whales, dolphins and porpoises spend time in these
waters than anywhere in the world,'' according to a sanctuary brochure.
And the sanctuary has some of the largest seabird colonies in the
United States.
Jeff Hottowe's ancestors were whalers, people of the cape who lived on
what the sea provided. Today the Makah are looking again to the sea to
help them preserve the ancient ways.
``My father's voice doesn't carry as far as it once did,'' said
Hottowe. ``My family for generations has sung the songs. So I am
becoming a singer. And now I'm training my nieces and nephews, too.''
