U.S. Plans to File WTO Complaints Against Brazil, Five Others 
The U.S. government announced Monday that it may file World Trade
Organization (WTO) complaints against Brazil and five other nations to
gain access to a wide range of markets, from autos to pharmaceuticals.
Brazil was targeted for two alleged violations, one involving textile
products and the other one covering the administration's belief the
country needs to increase patent protection for U.S. products.
The Clinton administration said the five other nations targeted in the
annual trade review were Romania, for discriminatory pricing on
clothing, poultry and distilled spirits; India, for rules regarding
autos; the Philippines, for local content requirements on autos and
motorcycles; Argentina, for patent protections; and Denmark, for the
enforcement of its patent and copyright laws.
"These cases underscore our determination to take vigorous action
against foreign government practices that conflict with international
obligations," U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky said in a
statement announcing the administration's decisions.
Barshefsky stopped short of launching WTO complaints in several higher
profile disputes, including one with the European Union over subsidies
for Airbus Industries.
But she said stepped-up enforcement action may be warranted in the near
future against the EU over the Airbus consortium, as well as Japan over
its glass market and public works sector, South Korea over
pharmaceuticals and autos, and Mexico over its import price scheme.
The annual report was certain to enrage major U.S. trading partners,
already up in arms over the Clinton administration's crackdown on cheap
steel imports. Last month, the United States threatened to file WTO
complaints against Mexico and South Africa for alleged discrimination
against U.S. telecommunications companies.
Before filing full-blown complaints against Brazil, the Philippines and
Romania, U.S. officials said they would hold 60 days of consultations
at the WTO.
In addition to the new enforcement actions, Barshefsky Monday placed 16
trading partners on the "Priority Watch List," which could lead to
retaliation in future. They are: Argentina, the Dominican Republic, the
EU, Egypt, Greece, Guatemala, India, Israel, Italy, South Korea,
Malaysia, Peru, Poland, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine.
Barshefsky also singled out 39 trading partners for the "Watch List."
For the first time, this list includes Kazakhstan, Latvia and
Lithuania.
