EDITORS: HONG KONG  (BC-AP Financial Summary,0542) Asian stock
markets closed generally lower Thursday, with share prices falling in
Tokyo after three days of gains. Tokyo's 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average
fell 62.02 points, or 0.33 percent, closing at 19,013.60. The Tokyo
Stock Price Index of all issues listed on the first section was down
1.21 points, or 0.08 percent, to 1,519.20. Traders said share prices
opened lower on profit-taking, recovered in midday, but then fell back
in the afternoon session due to persistent arbitrage-linked sales.
Meanwhile, the U.S. dollar closed at 99.01, up 0.03 yen from
Wednesday's finish in Tokyo and also above its overnight closing of
98.93 yen in New York. It was the first time the dollar had closed
above 99.00 yen in Tokyo since Oct. 13. MADRID, Spain  -- A plan to
salvage the near-bankrupt airline Iberia appeared doomed Thursday after
talks between management and pilots ended in disagreement over pay
cuts. Management and representatives of the carrier's two main unions
reached a tentative agreement Tuesday on a plan that entailed a wage
freeze, salary cuts averaging 8.5 percent and a reduction of 3,500
jobs. Acceptance by the pilots, who make up 5 percent of the airlines
24,000 employees, would have paved the way for the plan to be
implemented. SEOUL, South Korea  -- South Korea sold a record
amount of products overseas in November but still ran a trade deficit
of dlrs 292 million for the month. The November deficit, after a dlrs
88 million surplus in November last year, resulted from a continuing
surge of capital goods imports, the Trade, Industry, and Energy
Ministry said Thursday in its monthly report. November's trade brought
the cumulative deficit for the year's first 11 months to dlrs 6.3
billion, up from a deficit of dlrs 2.21 billion in January-November
last year. TOKYO  -- A key parliamentary committee approved Japan's
acceptance of the GATT world trade treaty without fanfare Thursday,
paving the way for final approval by Asia's most powerful economy. The
special ad hoc committee sent the bill to the more powerful lower house
of Parliament, where it faces near-certain approval in a full session
called to convene Friday. Final passage in the upper house is expected
a few days afterward. Japan largely quelled the fiercest opposition to
the accord, from Japan's rice farmers, by promising a six-year, 7.2
trillion yen (dlrs 74 billion) package of subsidies and aid. HANOI,
Vietnam  -- Skilled workers and managers at Vietnam's state-owned
companies are flocking to private firms where wages are higher, a
report said Thursday. Skilled workers make up 35 percent of the work
force in the private sector compared to 20 percent at state-run firms,
according to a survey conducted in Ho Chi Minh City by the national
trade union, the General Confederation of Labor. Some Vietnamese
economists worry that a brain drain will impair the ability of state
sector firms to compete in a free market.
