Peasants who said they were part of a mobilization ordered by the rebel
Zapatista National Liberation Army blocked several highways in the
southern state of Chiapas Monday and took over the town hall in at
least one community outside the zone that the rebels have held for
almost a year.
But no shots were reported, and government officials insisted that the
actions were a civil protest by peasants and Indians and not the
resumption of the insurrection that began in Chiapas on Jan. 1.
It is not clear whether the peasants are members of the Zapatista army
or sympathizers of the mostly Indian movement in Mexico's poorest
state.
Rebel leaders who had been warning for the last two weeks that
resumption of war was ``imminent'' said at a news conference that their
forces now were present in 38 communities in Chiapas, but here, too, it
is not clear whether they meant troops or supporters.
Many of the 38 communities are poor Indian settlements that have
pledged their allegiance to a ``government in rebellion'' formed by the
official loser in August's gubernatorial election.
The masked rebel leader called Subcommander Marcos told reporters this
morning that he had ordered a troop mobilization as the first
``military action'' since the uprising began nearly a year ago. At the
same time, he offered to honor a government truce if the official
governor of Chiapas resigned.
The rebel leader rejected a recent plan by President Ernesto Zedillo to
form a multiparty commission to negotiate a peace settlement, demanding
instead that an existing panel headed by Bishop Samuel Ruiz of the
Roman Catholic Diocese of San Cristobal de las Casas handle the
negotiations.
In the last week, Zedillo has sought to take the initiative away from
the rebels in Chiapas by proposing a new peace commission including
members of the opposition and by divulging details of offers he had
sent to the rebels before taking office on Dec. 1.
The moves were intended to take advantage of growing public sentiment
against the Zapatistas for their insistence on threatening to use
violence to resolve longstanding problems of poverty and injustice
suffered by Indians in Chiapas.
Monday afternoon, Governor Eduardo Robledo Rincon announced the
formation of an economic development program for the state, in a move
that also was intended to increase pressure on the rebels to negotiate
in peace, advisers to Zedillo said.
But the rebel leaders repeated their demands for Robledo's resignation.
Since he took office on Dec. 8, Chiapas has been stuck between the war
threatened by the rebels and the peace promised by the government.
Before dawn Monday morning, a group of peasants peacefully took over
the town hall of Simojovel de Allende, about 30 miles northwest of San
Cristobal de las Casas and outside the zone of conflict.
Witnesses reported that 50 to 150 peasants, some armed with shotguns
and sticks, occupied the town hall without firing a shot.
Adelfo Gutierrez Velasco, a local official from Huitiupan, a small
community near Simojovel, said armed men also showed up about a
half-mile from his town Monday morning and said they were part of the
Zapatista movement. The armed men handed out Zapatista literature and
stopped buses, telling residents ``to listen to the instructions about
this movement.''
Heriberto Velasco Castaneda, a state government spokesman, said the
local police in Simojovel had offered no resistance. He said that there
were no other reports of armed peasants Monday, and that tree trunks
used to block several highways had been removed by early afternoon.
Monday morning's action resembles the initial offensive of the
Zapatistas in the first few hours of Jan. 1, when they took over
government buildings in four towns in Chiapas.
The rebels retained control of the towns for about two days before the
Mexican Army mobilized to retake them. Officials estimate that 145
people were killed in the fighting, but human rights groups and the
Catholic Church say the toll was much higher.
A cease-fire agreed to on Jan. 12 has so far been honored by both
sides. Negotiations between the government and the rebels in February
resulted in a proposed settlement that was rejected by the rebels in
June.
