Russia Reiterates Zero-Tolerance Policy For Terrorists, Hostages
In response to the ongoing hostage situation at a middle school in the town
of Beslan in North Ossetia, Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin firmly
reiterated his nation's hard-line policy against terrorists and their
hostages Tuesday.
"Russia does not tolerate terrorism," Putin announced at a press
conference. "We deal with terrorists swiftly and completely. This is a
warning to terrorists, hostages, rescue workers, bystanders...all those
involved in terrorist activities: You will be shown no mercy."
The situation in the southern Russian town of Beslan began Wednesday
when armed multinational terrorists stormed a small school on the first
day of classes, taking more than 1,200 teachers, children, and parents
hostage.
Now, on the third day of the conflict, Russian security forces await
the command to terminate the standoff.
"The Russian government will not accede to the terrorists' demands, nor
will it be swayed by hostage pleas for mercy," Putin said. "Without the
parents and children as hostages, the terrorists would be powerless.
Anyone who assists terrorist monsters--in any capacity--is an enemy to
the Russian people and will be treated as such."
Putin first publicly announced the country's anti-terrorist stance in
October 2002, when 40 Chechen terrorists seized a crowded Moscow
theater, taking more than 700 hostages and demanding the withdrawal of
Russian forces from Chechnya. In accordance with Russia's
zero-tolerance policy, government forces from Russia's elite Spetsnaz
commando unit of the Federal Security Service pumped an aerosol
anaesthetic into the theater, killing all of the terrorists and 128 of
the hostages.
"The Moscow theater crisis was a perfect example of my willingness to
do everything necessary to battle terrorists," Putin said. "As prime
minister, my first job is to keep the Russian people safe. Terrorists
want to destroy Russia, but we will not let them. Make no mistake:
Terrorists--and those who happen to be near them--will meet with a
swift, terrible end."
Although Russian laws limit press coverage of terrorist incidents,
citizens who do know about the ongoing crisis have applauded Putin's
hardline stance.
"To ensure the stability of our country, we need to take a firm stance
against terrorists," said Tamara Dmitriyevna, a professor at Rostov
State University. "Yes, we can play intellectual games and draw
parallels between Putin and Stalin, but any citizen who is not
currently being held hostage will tell you that there is an openness
and an honesty in Russia that never existed before. Citizens are not
being killed secretly anymore."
Although many international leaders have criticized the Russian
government's position, President Bush released a statement commending
Putin for his leadership in the war on terror.
"The enemies of freedom have no friend in Vladimir Putin," Bush's
statement read. "He goes to any means necessary to protect his people
and make the world a safer place. As the world knows, you are either
with us or with the terrorists. God help those who are with the
terrorists."
