Zimbabwe to help train Mozambican new army 
Zimbabwe will send military trainers to Mozambique this week to help
train its neighbour's new unified army ahead of general elections there
in October, Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) commander, Lt General Vitalis
Zvinavashe, said Thursday.
In response to a request from Mozambique for help in training and
integrating government and former RENAMO rebel troops into one unified
army before the country's first democratic elections, Zimbabwe has
agreed to send 14 officers and 105 soldiers to instruct.
"The Mozambican government has requested the assistance of the Zimbabwe
defence forces in the training of 12 of the 15 battalions which are to
form the nucleus of the new national army," Zvinavashe told the
trainers who are expected to leave for Mozambique this week.
Mozambique's first three infantry battalions ended a six-week training
on Tuesday under British and Mozambique instructors.
When they signed the peace accord in 1992, the former RENAMO rebels in
the neighbouring country, refused to include Zimbabwe in the country's
peacekeeping operation, but now with the peace peace process threatened
by the delay in training the new army, it has now agreed to its
involvement.
"Zimbabwe, under the Rome peace accord, was not asked to provide
peacekeeping forces, but because there are problems in Mozambique,
there is need for us to assist out neighbour to create a force for the
next elections" Zvinavashe said.
Zimbabwe and Britain trained the country's first 540 military
instructors at a military school in Zimbabwe.
Training of the country's 15,000-strong new army, which according to
the peace calendar, should be completed by September 15, is being
funded by France, Britain and Portugal, while Italy is considering
helping.
Mozambique plans to train a total of 30,000 troops as the future army.
The United Nations, which is supervising the peace process in
Mozambique, would like to see the training and integration of the
former rival troops before the elections in October to avoid the
Angolan situation, where UNITA rebels resumed war after losing
elections.
Zimbabwe's help to Mozambique becomes the latest to African countries
in recent years.
In Angola there was a small contingent serving in UNAVEM, in Somalia
there are two battalions in UNOSOM and for Rwanda it has prepared one
battalion to leave anytime now.
This year Zimbabwe also provided training to South Africa's former
liberation movement guerrillas preparing them for integration into
their country's army after the April elections.
