Upper-Reaches of Yangtze Valley Awakening 
The once-sleepy valley area along the upper reaches of the Yangtze
River is now becoming a busy economic belt, as a part of the open-up of
China's longest river.
The area lies in southwestern China's Sichuan Province, including
Yibin, Luzhou and Chongqing cities, and Fuling and Wanxian prefectures.
One-third of Sichuan's population, or 36 million people, live in this
91,000 sq.m. area, which has abundant resources and easy access to
surrounding provinces.
In 1994, the newly-emerging economic belt produced 119.25 billion yuan
(14 billion US dollars) worth of industrial and agricultural output,
about one-third of the total for the whole province. Imports and
exports surpassed two billion US dollars, more than half of the
provincial total.
Before 1990, industry accounted for half of the area's general output,
whereas last year, the industrial sector produced 94.1 billion yuan (11
billion US dollars) in goods, 3.7 times the agricultural output.
A number of pillar industries have come into being, such as machinery,
chemicals, coal and electric power, iron and steel, auto manufacturing,
medicines, and textiles.
In recent years, the region has pumped in a large amount of money to
build railroads and highways, open air and navigation routes, and
install advanced telecommunications systems.
Some years ago, Sichuan had few means of access to other places around
the country. Now, from this region along the Yangtze River, flights go
to 30 domestic and overseas cities, and telephone links connect it with
700 Chinese cities and 180 countries and regions in the world.
Thanks to improved infrastructure, more and more foreign capital has
come in. Last year alone, the area drew overseas investment of up to
509 million US dollars and set up 400 joint ventures, both accounting
for one third of the total in Sichuan.
Tourism also adds a bit of color to the local economy. A prime tourist
route is taking shape along the scenic Three Gorges on the Yangtze
River, which had 173,000 foreign visitors last year, bringing in 45
million US dollars.
