Rose makes one more bid to get agreement on implementing truce
UN Bosnia commander General Michael Rose, with just five days left in
his mandate here, mounts another effort Thursday to get Bosnian
government and Serb military leaders to honor a ceasefire they signed
on New Year's eve.
Rose is scheduled to meet Bosnian army commander General Rasim Delic
and Serb counterpart Ratko Mladic at Sarajevo airport, although UN
sources warned it was possible the two sides could send lower ranking
representatives.
The meeting comes as a UN-brokered cessation of hostilies accord is
under severe strain, with both warring armies having recently advanced
their frontlines in two different sectors of the war.
Retaliatory Serb shelling into Bihac town last weekend killed seven
people while here in Sarajevo a youth was shot and wounded Tuesday by
sniper fire, which according to the United Nations appeared to come
from Serb lines.
Elsewhere in the Bihac pocket, located in northwestern Bosnia, the
government army is battling dissident Moslems and rebel Serbs from
neighboring Croatia. The latter two parties are not signatories to the
four-month truce and UN negotiators have made little headway persuading
them to at least respect the spirit of the accord.
UN military sources said early Thursday that more than 100 detonations
had been recorded in the Bihac region in the previous 24 hours.
In Sarajevo, UN officials have been hampered by delays in a Bosnian
army pullout from a demilitarized zone on Mount Igman and the failure
of the parties to agree on reopening critical supply and escape routes
for this war-weary capital.
UN inspection teams on Tuesday determined that mainly Moslem Bosnian
troops had left the zone -- in compliance with the ceasefire but nearly
two weeks after they had pledged to evacuate the sector.
When the United Nations tried to arrange a reconnaissance flight on
Wednesday with officers from both sides, in a bid to verify to
everyone's satisfaction that the DMZ was clear, the mission had to be
cancelled when the Serbs demanded that positions outside the zone also
be inspected.
Of more immediate concern to the people of Sarajevo is the lingering
conflict over the type of humanitarian traffic to be allowed on roads
running south of here that link the capital to the outside world.
The routes, closed since July, were to be reopened under the ceasefire.
But while the Serbs are insisting that use be restricted to eight
UN-related agencies, the government is demanding authorization for
commercial trucks carrying food and other essential items.
Rose, whose one-year mandate here ends on January 24, characterizes
such snags as "minor problems" when compared to the violence that
prevailed before the truce.
