Highlights of today's major Beijing-based newspapers: "People's Daily"
-- Chinese President Jiang Zemin said in Beijing yesterday that China
wishes to further friendly cooperation with Western European countries
including the Netherlands in the spirit of mutual respect, mutual
benefit, and equality. He made the remark during his meeting with
visiting Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. -- Chinese Vice-Premier Li
Lanqing met in Beijing yesterday with Dutch Deputy Prime Minister
Annemarie Jorritsma and her party. Jorritsma, also minister of economic
affairs, is accompanied by a trade and economic delegation representing
more than 40 large Dutch finance, transportation, contracting,
manufacturing, energy, foodstuffs, retailing, and river-dredging
companies. -- President Jiang Zemin, in a meeting with Nigeria's
President- elect Olusegun Obasanjo in Beijing yesterday, said that his
visit demonstrates the importance he and the future Nigerian government
place on Sino-Nigerian relations and that he believes it will help the
further development of bilateral friendly and cooperative ties. "Xinhua
Daily Telegraph" -- About 500,000 people in Beijing will gather at
Tian'anmen Square on the morning of October 1 to mark the 50th
anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. After
Chinese President Jiang Zemin delivers a speech, a military review and
a parade will take place. -- To reform and develop state enterprises in
a better way is an important and urgent task for the Chinese central
government, said Vice-Premier Wu Bangguo yesterday during his
inspection in northeast China's Liaoning Province. -- Application for
the candidacy for the first chief executive of the Macao Special
Administrative Region (SAR) is open and just and the personal
inclination of the applicants is well- respected, said Li Shuilin,
deputy director of the Xinhua News Agency Macao Branch and
vice-secretary-general of the Preparatory Committee for the Macao SAR.
"China Daily" -- China's banks were more generous in granting loans in
the first quater this year, as the government's investment stimulus
package, launched last year helped generate more projects suitable for
credit. -- The Central government is drafting a National Framework for
Bio-safety Administration to protect human health and the environment.
-- Taking better care of laid-off workers and further expanding
coverage of the pension system are being given priority by the Ministry
of Labor and Social Security this year.
