Nation's Slicked-Back-Hair Men Rally Against Negative Hollywood Portrayal
Thousands of members of the slicked-back-hair community
gathered in Hollywood Monday to protest the film industry's longtime
trend of depicting men with slicked-back hair as untrustworthy,
unlikeable antagonists.
"There have been 4,192 films in the past 10 years in which male
characters with sleek or slicked-back hairstyles have been portrayed in
a negative light," said Ray Swartz, chairman of the National
Organization of Men with Slicked-Back Hair. "Even though men with this
hairstyle comprise just 3 percent of the U.S. populace, they make up
nearly 80 percent of all film and TV villains, bad guys, and just plain
assholes. As a result, thousands of men who enjoy wetting their hair
and then combing it straight back face a silent but pervasive form of
discrimination every single day."
"I'm just a man with slicked-back hair," Swartz added. "Does that make
me a sleazeball?"
According to statistics released by the organization, five out of every
six characters with slicked-back hair are cast as the primary
antagonist. Of this group, 29 percent are depicted as greedy and
manipulative Wall Street sharks, 22 percent as cold, emotionless
murderers, 19 percent as evil coaches or mentors, 12 percent as corrupt
mafiosi, 8 percent as undead creatures who feast on human blood, and
the remaining 10 percent fall into the general category of
jerks/pricks/John Travolta.
More alarming, Swartz said, is that certain subsets of
slicked-back-hair Americans endure even worse prejudices. He cited men
with slicked-back hair who also talk with cigarettes dangling out of
their mouths, wear blue button-down shirts with white collars, or place
toothpicks behind their right ears as the most victimized.
"Just because I have heavily gelled, jet-black, slicked-back hair does
not mean I can't lead a normal, productive life," Kettering, OH native
Martin Sutulovich said. "I'm not consumed by an insatiable thirst for
power, I know nothing about the high-pressure world of real-estate
speculation, and I have a wife and kids whom I love very much. The last
thing I want to do is murder them, cut them up into tiny pieces, bag
them up, and put them out with the trash, but when strangers look at
me, that's all they think."
A recent study conducted by Swartz's group indicates that Americans who
slick back their hair usually experience typical development, have life
spans equal to those without slicked-back hair, and are no more likely
to stoically torture people with medical instruments than the average
dry-haired citizen.
"You always see crooked lawyers and politicians with slicked-back hair
in the movies, but when was the last time you saw a computer programmer
with slicked-back hair, a farmer who built a magical baseball field in
a cornfield with slicked-back hair, or a man who defused a bomb at the
last possible second to save thousands of innocent lives with
slicked-back hair?" Swartz said. "Never."
"The closest thing we've ever gotten to a hero is Steven Seagal or that
Spanish neighbor guy on Sanford And Son," he added. "And Seagal's hair
is pulled back into a ponytail, so he doesn't even really count."
Swartz also pointed out that even females who appear in films with
slicked-back hair often end up transforming into aliens who have sex
with people and then kill them.
"I have naturally oily hair. If I leave it dry, it ends up messy by the
end of the day, so I slick it back," Doug Roessner of Brockton, MA
said. "I sell insurance for a living, so how am I supposed to get my
clients to trust me when they all think I'm some money-hungry scumbag?
And every time I tell my bosses that I'll 'take care of' a problem,
they immediately assume I mean murdering someone. It's pathetic."
"My son hasn't been the same around me since he watched D2: The Mighty
Ducks last month," said slicked-back-hair man Mick Romanini,
referencing the film in which coach Gordon Bombay slicks back his hair
when consumed by fame, then wears it dry again upon realizing the error
of his ways. "Is this what we want to teach our children about
slicked-back hair?"
Added Romanini, "He should be able to do whatever he wants with his
hair when he gets older and not worry that people are going to assume
he's the kind of guy who would plot his best friend's death and then
seduce the widow to get his hands on the insurance money."
In interviews, studio executives have countered the protests by citing
a number of realistic and sympathetic characters with slicked-back
hair, including James Bond, Superman, and Data from Star Trek.
But Swartz rejects such claims. After closer examination, he said,
Bond's hair is slicked "more to the side than back," Data is not a
human being, and Superman has a distinct curl of hair that falls on his
forehead, which his group considers a different hairstyle altogether.
Hollywood is facing similar protests from groups such as the National
Association of Maniacal Laughers, the American Mustache-Twirlers
Coalition, and the Alliance of Gentlemen with Scars and Eye Patches.
