Public not enthusiastic about intervention
If President Bill Clinton has seemed hesitant to act in Bosnia, it may
be because those who elected him are, as one expert put it, "very
reluctant internationalists."
"You see that same current all through the history of public opinion,"
said polling expert Karlan Bowman of the American Enterprise Institute.
"On Bosnia in particular, (polls) support that reluctant
internationalist view of the world."
A stark reminder of it was evident in a Washington Post-ABC survey
released this week: nearly 60 percent of those surveyed opposed sending
troops to Bosnia to stop the fighting.
In a June Time-CNN poll, 64 percent said the United States had no
responsibility to stop fighting in ex-Yugoslavia, while 72 percent in
the same survey said the country should curtail overseas involvement in
order to "concentrate on problems at home."
Does that mean US nationals are isolationists?
Not quite, according to Bowman. She notes that despite a relative
"hands-off" approach, polls show an overwhelmingly steady sense of
obligation on the part of Americans to join allied efforts in
international affairs.
Indeed, while polling data shows radical twists and turns in attitudes
toward an array of domestic issues, opinions about foreign affairs have
remained strikingly constant for more a half-century, if not longer.
In 1942, when asked by the Roper Starch Worldwide polling firm how
Americans should react to world instability, 44 percent responded that
the United States should act with other allies, 38 percent said it was
not a US problem and six percent said the United States should act
alone.
More than 50 years later, in 1993, the responses to the same question
in a separate poll were virtually unchanged, said Bowman. Fifty percent
said the United States should act with other allies, 36 percent said to
stay out and seven percent said to go at it alone.
And in a response that flies in the face of many detractors in the US
Congress, the international institution singled out most often as
representing allied efforts was the United Nations, she added.
The response to a question in this week's Washington Post-ABC poll
echoed those findings.
While nearly 60 percent were against sending troops to Bosnia to stop
fighting, an overwhelming 84 percent would support such a move in order
to remove UN peacekeepers put in harm's way.
