"Rise of Modern China" Exhibition to Open in Hong Kong
An exhibition entitled "Rise of Modern China" will be staged at the
Special Exhibition Gallery of the Hong Kong Museum of History from
September 16 to November 21.
The exhibition will feature 180 significant historical objects.
Highlights include the lens of the microscope used by Dr. Sun Yat- sen
when he was a medical student, according to a spokesman of the
Provisional Urban Council, said Dr. Joseph Ting, chief curator of the
Hong Kong Museum of History.
Also included are the flags used by the Peking University students
during the May Fourth Movement, the robe worn by the Chinese judge at
the international military tribunal in Tokyo after World War II and the
proclamation of Mao Zedong made at the founding ceremony of the
People's Republic of China.
"This century witnesses the greatest and fastest pace of development in
human history. To the Chinese nation and its people, this is even an
epoch-making century," the chief curator said.
"On top of many items of Class I National Treasures, more than 200
historical photographs will also be on display," Ting said, " Most of
these photographs have never been shown in Hong Kong before."
The exhibition, a present offered by the Provisional Urban Council to
celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic
of China, aims at providing an account of the efforts that China made
in the past century striving for strength and prosperity, he said.
Jointly presented by the Provisional Urban Council and the National
Museum of Modern Chinese History, and sponsored by the Chinese History
and Culture Educational Foundation for Youth, the "Rise of Modern
China" exhibition is also a "Spotlight Hong Kong" event supported by
the Hong Kong Tourist Association.
The Museum is also planning a series of educational and extension
activities. These include display board design competition, essay
writing competition, historical diorama model- making competition,
historical radio play competition and quiz on modern history.
The Museum will also produce Hong Kong's first CD-ROM on modern Chinese
history to be used as an interactive teaching kit for Chinese history.
