Moscow Branch of Japanese Sect Watched by Officials 
Counterintelligence agents for the past three years have been
monitoring the activities of a Japanese religious sect with possible
links to a nerve gas attack in Tokyo, an official said Thursday.
The service began investigating the Moscow branch of Aum Shinri Kyo
soon after the group began regular radio broadcasts in 1992, Federal
Counterintelligence Agency spokesman Vladimir Tomarovsky said.
``It appeared that many young people were affected by their preaching.
Some suffered serious health damage, others severe mental disorders,''
he said.
``When it became clear that we were dealing with a large-scale problem,
rather than an isolated case, we sent our materials to Russia's chief
prosecutor, who opened a criminal investigation,'' he said.
Japanese police are investigating the group's possible links to
Monday's attack in the Tokyo subway which killed at least 10 people and
sickened 5,000.
Tomarovsky said he had no grounds to suspect the Moscow branch of
planning any similar terrorist activity.
Aum Shinri Kyo, whose name means Sublime Truth, has six centers in
Moscow and a branch in the southern city of Vladikavkaz. It claim more
than 30,000, members, but the number could not be independently
verified.
Its twice-daily 25-minute broadcasts on Radio Mayak were stopped
Wednesday out of sympathy for victims of the Tokyo attack.
Leaders of the Moscow branch held a news conference Thursday to deny
brainwashing and ill-treatment of members. ``We are opening our center
to you, to show that we do not preach violence,'' said the branch's
Japanese leader, who identified himself only as Juyu.
He spoke in a large room with drab brown walls adorned with portraits
of sect leader Shoko Asahara. About two dozen members, mostly in their
20s, attended the conference.
Natasha Gromachikhina, 28, said she left her mother and young daughter
to come to Moscow from Naberezhnye Chelny on the Volga to study the
``teaching.''
``I heard the radio broadcasts, I was attracted by the music,'' she
said. ``Then, I listened to the words and thought the teaching was so
clear and simple, and I came here to study it.''
Roman Miroshenko, 24, said, ``if you want to be released, you must get
rid of all that ties you down, including your possessions.'' Before he
could continue, an older member told him to go to another room.
According to investigators, new members are forced to renounce their
parents and to turn over all possessions to the sect, then ordered to
pray intensively day and night.
Dmitry Saprykin, a branch leaders, claimed members were free to come
and go, and funds came from ``voluntary donations,'' made by followers.
