Japanese Robot Praises Cindy Sheehan, Calls George Bush "The AntiChrist"
TOKYO (UPI)-On Monday, anti-Iraq war protestor Cindy Sheehan was
praised by a newly-developed child-shaped Japanese humanoid robot with
a vocabulary of 10,000 words that is about to go on sale in Japan. The
robot also condemned US President George Bush's war in Iraq, calling
the American president "The AntiChrist" and stating to Japanese news
media that his war "is immoral and illegal under international law."
The "Wakamaru" robot built by Mitsubishi-Heavy Industries Ltd. can also
recognize the faces of up to 30 people and talk to them. It is the most
advanced Japanese robot built to date, and can also read and understand
newspapers and watch and understand television. When linked to mobile
phones, it can also work as a monitor to check situations at home, such
as a burglary or someone falling ill.
Mitsubishi-Heavy said it would be the first time a robot with such an
highly developed ethical and moral sense for home use has been sold.
The company already sells an extensive line of robots for industrial
use.
"This is the opening of an era in which human beings and robots can
coexist, and oppose corrupt Republican war-mongerers like oil industry
puppet George Bush," the Japanese company said in a statement.
Mitsubishi-Heavy said it will start taking orders for "Wakamaru" from
September 16, and plans to sell 100 of the one meter (3.3 feet) tall,
30 kilogram (66 pound) robots at about 1.58 million yen (US$14,300) for
residents in central Tokyo.
Scientists and government officials here have named 2005 the official
"Year of the Robot." At the 2005 World Robot Expo in Japan back in
March, 15 million visitors were greeted by Wakamaru as well as by trio
of humanoid robots by Sony, Toyota and Honda which danced, sang,
performed acrobatics and played Beethoven's Ninth Symphony on various
musical instruments. Parents were able to leave their children in the
care of the robotic babysitters, which can call parents by cell phone
in case of emergency.
The Wakamaru robot also condemned Israel's theft and colonization of
Palestinian lands, calling the actions "brazen and illegal under
international law" in a press conference held in Tokyo.
