French major goes on treason trial for passing secrets to Serbs
A French army major went on trial on Tuesday accused of handing over NATO
bombing plans to the Serbian authorities during the build-up to the 1999
war in Kosovo.
Pierre-Henri Bunel, 49, is being tried at a special military court in
Paris for "secret dealings with a foreign power", an offence carrying a
15-year maximum jail term.
A verdict is expected on Wednesday.
As a senior French official attached to NATO headquarters in Brussels,
Bunel is alleged to have had a series of meetings with a Serbian agent
in 1998, and to have handed over information about planned NATO
targets.
The NATO action was threatened if former Yugoslav president Slobodan
Milosevic did not withdraw his forces from Kosovo.
"I am not a traitor. I had no intention of harming either NATO or
France, and I did not harm either NATO or France," Bunel said on
arrival at the court at a barracks in eastern Paris.
In court, Bunel admitted doing wrong in meeting the Serbian agent, but
said that in handing over information he was acting on orders received
in an anonymous telephone call from a military authority, as part of
attempts to convince the Serb authorities that NATO threats were for
real.
Several French generals turned up in court in his defence, giving him
glowing character references.
"He was someone very loyal, close to his chiefs, courageous. I never
considered Bunel of being capable of what they are accusing him of,"
said General Michel Roquejeoffre, who employed Bunel as aide-de camp in
Saudi Arabia in 1990.
"He was an intelligent and quick-witted officer. He certainly did not
have treason on his mind or any other personal profit," said General
Tanneguy Le Pichon, who also ran into Bunel in the Middle East.
The suspect's wife told the court that he never revealed any NATO
secrets to her and their two children.
A high-flier who speaks fluent English and Arabic, Bunel was cabinet
director at France's NATO mission when he was contacted in July 1998 by
a Yugoslav diplomat, Jovan Milanovic, who he quickly identified as a
spy.
In the second half of 1998, efforts to find a political solution to the
conflict between Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo were stalling, and NATO
was formulating the plan of attack that was eventually launched in
March the following year.
According to the prosecution, the documents handed over to Milanovic
did not contain operational secrets, but "they allowed the Yugoslav
authorities to have a clear idea of NATO's intentions, objectives,
capacities and concerns."
Allegations of pro-Serb leanings in the French army have surfaced
periodically in recent years.
In 1998, a senior officer with the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia was
brought home after claims were made in the US press that he had tipped
off the Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic about NATO plans to
capture him.
At the end of 1997, the then chief prosecutor at the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, Louise Arbour, said
indicted war criminals living in the French sector of Bosnia "felt in
absolute security" and accused France of failing to cooperate with the
court.
Bunel's lawyer Eric Najsztat said the decision to prosecute him had
been taken purely in order to dispel the climate of suspicion about
French bias.
