Year-long schedule being planned for Indian players 
Indian cricket officials are planning a non-stop international circuit
on the lines of golf and tennis to keep players busy all-year round.
The circuit, expected to start early next year, will involve
international matches almost every month in India or abroad, a senior
official said on Thursday.
"If golfers and tennis stars can play all through the year, so can our
cricketers," former Indian cricket chief Inderjit Singh Bindra told
AFP.
"There'll be more money for the players as well as the board, which
will then plough the funds back into the development of junior cricket
in India," he said.
"It's a concept that is bound to catch on in the rest of the world."
The new circuit will see the Indian season, hitherto confined from
September to May, extend to June.
So far, cricket in the peak months of May to August is confined only to
England. Sri Lanka plays its home internationals in the relatively
rain-free period of July to September.
"Matches during the summer will be day-night affairs," Bindra said. "We
have at least seven top-class cricket venues with lighting facilities."
Bindra brushed aside concerns that the gruelling schedule, which could
resemble an ongoing soap opera on television, will tell heavily on
players' health.
"Professional cricketers have to adjust to it and pace themselves
accordingly like other sportsmen," he said.
The experiment of year-long internationals will be tested from the
current season itself.
Australia, which is already in India to play a one-off test match in
New Delhi next week, will be joined by South Africa for a triangular
limited-overs series which runs till November 6.
South Africa will then play three test matches in India till December
14, and immediately host the Indians for three further tests and a
limited-overs triangular also involving Zimbabwe.
The Indians, who return from South Africa in mid-February, will leave
soon after for a five-test tour of the West Indies which ends on May 3.
In May-end India will host a multi-nation limited-overs tournament to
celebrate the 50th anniversary of the country's independence.
Details of the tournament are being worked out, Bindra said, adding
that Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh were the likely participants.
The Indians will tour Sri Lanka in August-September for the Asia Cup
and a two-test series against the islanders.
This will be followed in September-end by a five-match series against
Pakistan in Canada and the first-ever limited-overs tournament in the
United States featuring India, Pakistan and the West Indies.
From October to December, India will host New Zealand and Sri Lanka for
tests and one-day internationals, followed by a three-test home series
against Australia.
The proposed schedule almost rules out English county engagements for
the top Indian cricketers like skipper Sachin Tendulkar, Javagal
Srinath and Anil Kumble.
Raj Singh Dungarpur, who replaced Bindra as president of the Indian
cricket board last month, said players may be given long-term contracts
by the board to compensate for loss of earnings elsewhere.
