Cheney Wins Marathon
Riding on the backs of two black-hooded Gitmo detainees bridled for the
occasion, bullwhip in hand.
Bush Awakens From Louisiana Nightmare
The President described the bad dream as "terrible," saying "I was
surrounded by black folks and no Secret Service," as he barely
restrained a shiver and hugged his Binky.
American Deriding Soccer Kicked in the Face
A fat, beer-swilling American was kicked in the face by soccer
hooligans in a pub in London after saying, "Soccer is mad gay, yo!" one
too many times. The kicker was heard to say, "It's football you dumb
****e!" in barely understandable Cockney before delivering the telling
blow.
Chuck Norris visits New York City
The residents of Gotham wisely evacuated the city, only narrowly saving
themselves from death by roundhouse kick.
Cheney Wins Mr. Universe Competition
The victorious VP pulled out a win by drinking the souls of his
opponents from a goblet made from the hollowed-out skull of an Iranian
virgin during a ghastly ritual.
Bush Has 30 Seconds of Clear, Unmuddled Logical Thought
The visibly disturbed War President swore never to do that again and
locked himself away to watch "Gunsmoke" on DVD for a week to straighten
himself out.
Boy Expecting Happy Ending Disappointed
His dog hadn't run away and gone on a grand adventure as he had been
told. Rather, his parents ran it over and lied to him. Neighbors called
the dog "an annoying bastard" and said "good riddance!"
Fat Wealthy Man Gets Smoking Hot Girlfriend
Three nearby gentlemen pretended as though they would not have sex with
the woman in question on principles, calling her a "gold digger" while
undressing her with their eyes.
International Snake-Handling Convention Goes Terribly Wrong
Surveying the room full of corpses and poisonous vipers, NYC detective
Ray Broward said, "Who's gonna vote for Giuliani now?"
Self-Castrated Man on the Prowl
Said the man, "Let's see those girls at the office kick me in the nuts
when I hit on them now!" Nearby female co-workers wretched in
disbelief.
Gordon Brown Can Juggle and Lie Simultaneously
In a true feat of acrobatics, the Prime Minister juggled five brightly
coloured plastic baubles while insisting that the invasion of Iraq was
necessary and justified.
Tony Blair to Visit Abu Ghraib Prison
The outgoing Prime Minister seemed disproportionately excited at the
prospect of the humiliations he was certain to endure within the
infamous prison.
