Serbs Launch Threatened Counter-Offensives
Rebel Serbs claimed swift successes Thursday in a promised
counter-offensive against advancing government troops, as their leader
outlined plans for military victory.
With the rapid escalation of fighting, U.N. officials pondered the role
of peacekeepers in Bosnia if the rival factions are set on war.
``If the parties don't want peace, how can we help?'' asked U.N.
spokesman Alexander Ivanko. ``A peacekeeping force is being pushed more
and more into a situation where there is very little peace to keep.''
The Bosnian government army has pushed back Serb forces in two
offensives launched ten days ago that number among its most successful
of the war.
Stung by the setback, Serb leader Radovan Karadzic this week threatened
a counter-offensive and even to take Sarajevo if government troops
pushed on.
The Serb military claimed Thursday that it had recaptured several
strategic points and encircled some government troops in a
counter-offensive in the Majevica mountains in northern Bosnia, the
Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported.
Government troops have been trying to take a vital Serb communications
tower at Stolice on the Majevica heights, and for the past several days
were reported to have it surrounded. The Tanjug report gave no details
of the Serbs' alleged successes, and U.N. officials could only confirm
artillery battles in the area.
In central Bosnia, U.N. officials confirmed a Serb counterattack on
Mount Vlasic, where government troops have gained about 50 square
kilometers (20 square miles) of territory and a communications tower
there. Government troops were sending in reinforcements.
In an interview with the Italian daily L'Informazione, Karadzic
suggested the government offensives fit in with the Serbs' overall
strategy: ``make the Muslims enter our territory and then eliminate
them.''
``We are determined to go all the way until our enemy's capitulation,''
Karadzic said in the interview reportedly conducted from his car phone
en route to the northern front. ``We will even take the cities
protected by the U.N.''
There has been speculation that the Serbs might try to overrun one or
all of three small eastern Muslim enclaves which are among six
U.N.-declared ``safe areas.''
Reflecting the mixed signals he has given since his troops were
surprised by the government advances, Karadzic said he was still open
to negotiations on a peace settlement but put the onus on the West.
The government has refused to abandon its recent offensives until the
Bosnian Serbs accept an international peace plan that would reduce Serb
holdings from the current 70 percent of Bosnia to 49 percent.
But both sides appear determined to settle their differences on the
battlefield, and increasingly to view U.N. peacekeepers as a hindrance
with little role left to play.
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic said on state TV late Wednesday
that the U.N. mandate was ``absurd.''
``The U.N. is keeping a peace which doesn't exist,'' Silajdzic said.
U.N. troops have faced increasing incidents of harrassment and direct
assualt.
A Dutch soldier, identified by the Dutch Defense Ministry as J. Borere,
was killed late Wednesday at an observation post near the strategic
Stolice communications tower, in what U.N. officials said was probably
a deliberate attack. Responsibility was being investigated.
Two other U.N. observation posts in northern Bosnia -- both manned by
Norwegians -- also were fired at Wednesday, but there were no injuries,
U.N. officials said.
The Dutch soldier was the 56th combat-related death for the United
Nations in former Yugoslavia since 1992.
In Sarajevo, the humanitarian airlift had to be scaled back Thursday
because Serbs were refusing to allow U.N. trucks to ferry supplies from
the airport into the city.
