Weekly Economic Review: Chinese Economy to Surpass Eight Percent Growth in 1998 (2)
Increases in total investments, exports and consumer demand, the three
major indicators of economic growth, will approach 10 percent
respectively in 1998, according to information released during the
economic work conference held at the end of 1997.
Efforts must also be made to actively use existing economic entities by
restructuring assets. The installment payment system should be adopted,
rural markets should be expanded, and export should be increased, said
Qiu Xiaohua, general economist with the State Statistical Bureau.
Qiu said that achieving an eight percent economic growth rate will
signal a 600 billion yuan increase in social demand.
In terms of investments, consumption and export demand, as the last two
categories will witness limited marginal rises the emphasis will be
placed on the increase of investment demand.
Measures should be adopted to ensure China's aggregate investment
increase by over 400 billion yuan during 1998. This will require fully
considering the appropriateness of steering private savings deposits of
over five trillion yuan into investments, said Qiu.
He stressed that increasing investments should be closely combined with
adjusting the economic structure. Emphasis will be placed on increasing
investments in the agriculture, water conservancy, public utilities,
transportation and environmental protection sectors, as well as the
construction of housing and technological upgrades.
Investors should gain an increasing awareness of risk factors, and
redundant construction should be prevented, according to Qiu.
The central government has decided to restructure some 2,000 medium to
large state-owned enterprises, or a third of the total number of
loss-making enterprises in China, and over two million workers will
face dismissal.
Statistics through the end of last year show that some 12 million
workers had been dismissed from their jobs, with some 4.8 million
people finding new jobs during the year.
