-- After making historic gains in Congress two years ago, Hispanics are
just hoping to hang onto the seats they have in Tuesday's elections.
Redrawing of the political map, the public's thirst for change and a
high number of open seats combined to boost Hispanic membership in the
House of Representatives from 11 to a record 17 in 1992. The jump gave
the nation's second largest minority a stronger voice on national
issues.
Hispanics are still underrepresented in Congress compared to their
percentage of the population. They number 22.4 million, or about 9
percent of the U.S. population, but they hold only 4 percent of House
seats. There are no Hispanics in the U.S. Senate.
Redistricting after the 1990 Census created a record 20
Hispanic-majority congressional districts. Political observers say that
is probably the best showing Hispanic candidates will enjoy for years.
``The redistricting really created contests where Hispanics had a good
chance of winning,'' said Robert Brischetto, executive director of the
Southwest Voter Research Institute, which studies Hispanic voting
trends. ``Now the question is trying to protect these incumbents.''
Despite the public's dissatisfaction with incumbents, particularly
Democrats, this year, analysts expect most Hispanics in Congress to be
re-elected.
All but three Hispanic lawmakers are Democrats and all but two
represent majority-Hispanic districts. Traditionally, 80 percent of
Mexican Americans have voted for Democrats, and most people favor
candidates of the same ethnic background, said Mark Brimhall, a
researcher for the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials.
``The mid-term elections are never a strength for anyone,'' Brimhall
said. ``We don't expect any real gains, but we expect a lot of
incumbents to do very well.''
The most-endangered Hispanic incumbent is Rep. Henry Bonilla, R-San
Antonio, the first Mexican-American Republican elected to the House.
Bonilla's race has attracted publicity, however, because his
challenger, Democrat Rolando Rios, also is Hispanic.
In addition to the incumbents, 12 Hispanics are running for House seats
in one of the two major parties, according to NALEO. Also, Republican
Bernadette Castro is challenging Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y.,
but she is not expected to win. Only two Hispanics have ever served in
the Senate.
All but two of the Hispanic challengers are Republicans, a sign that
the GOP is recognizing the value of Hispanic candidates and the
community's needs, Brischetto said.
``Republicans have wised up to the fact that they can cut a piece off
the traditional Democratic voting bloc,'' Brischetto said. ``That's why
they've been running Hispanics and been willing to put money behind
them.''
At the state and local level, the number of Hispanic elected officials
is expected to rise between 3 and 5 percent, said Harry Pachon,
director of the Tomas Rivera Center in Claremont, Calif. There are
about 5,000 Hispanic elected officials nationwide.
These candidates are gaining the experience they need to move up to
national office in the coming years, Pachon said, adding that term
limit initiatives in many states are opening opportunities for
Hispanics and other candidates without legislative experience.
Pachon predicted Hispanics will make gains in coming years and approach
true representation. A recent Census Bureau study projected that
Hispanics will become the nation's largest minority by the year 2010,
when their population is expected to top 40 million.
``The community has some distance to go for real empowerment,'' Pachon
said.
