``I want it to be interesting and a little different,'' she says of her
style.
Professional observers note that women who are aware of their most
flattering colors often instinctively choose those shades for their
home. For Faith Cherry, the special feeling for black and white started
with memories of a much-loved Italian grandmother who wore white shirts
and black skirts. ``I always liked having her around,'' she says.
Wednesday Novak, who shares her apartment with her brother, Jude Luth,
figures her penchant for 1950s- and 1960s-style costumes and furniture
pieces comes from ``the hours and hours of television I watched,
growing up.'' She started collecting vintage pieces when she was in
high school, at a time when '50s-style furniture was cheap enough for
her to afford. Besides the sofa, the apartment is furnished with the
likes of a pale green dinette set, an old family room bar and her
brother's ``space age'' lamps.
She admits her style developed, in part, as a rebellion against ``the
paneling'' and traditionalism in her family's home. Indeed, these walls
are washed in Chinese red, and the trim and radiator are embellished
with what Novak and her brother call ``Windex'' blue. In one corner is
a ceiling-high silver cone made, Novak says, for a recent party.
Not everyone agrees that style in one area follows in another. Kansas
City interior designer Karen Marcus, who has a distinctive style of
dress herself, says it is indeed rare. ``Most clients are kind of
preppy.They just kind of wear what their mothers put on them in high
school.''
The colors of clothes and home furnishings, for instance, are emerging
almost concurrently these days, says Margaret Walch, the associate
director of the Color Association of the United States. The spread of
communications that has made it possible for people to see colors much
faster than in the past--on television, and in magazine and newspaper
color.
Both fields are ``looking to the environment in a more loving way,''
boosting earth tones, terra cotta and oranges. Walch also sees white as
very strong.
At the same time, computer graphics have created a rush of ``wired
color'' patterns, and the new awareness of diverse ethnic cultures have
brought strong hot and spice tones to the forefront.
Marianne McEvoy, the executive editor of Elle Decor magazine, notes the
fuzzy tactile finish to fabrics seen in mohair and chenille sweaters
are emerging in fabrics used for pillows and other accents.
Ready-to-wear fashion's fascination with the past is also visible in
some retro-inspired home design, including patterns and colors and
vintage furniture.
As further evidence, McEvoy cites the example of fashion designers who
also tend to carry their style into their homes. Consider Giorgio
Armani's decor in monochromatic muted tones.
``Style is not one thing. It's your whole life. It's how you cook and
the dinner parties you give. It's all style,'' McEvoy said.
