Precede Redmond 
Nintendo of America on Wednesday filed a federal lawsuit accusing one
of its business partners of helping to produce hundreds of thousands of
counterfeit copies of Nintendo's hot-selling Donkey Kong Country video
game.
The civil suit against Korean conglomerate Samsung Electronics, filed
in U.S. District Court here, contends Samsung illegally manufactured
the tiny microprocessor chips that contain the audio and video
information for the game cartridges. The chips were sold on the black
market to companies in the Far East and elsewhere where counterfeit
Nintendo games were mass-produced, the suit says.
The bogus cartridges often sell for about half the dlrs 59 retail price
of a real Donkey Kong Country game, costing Nintendo millions of
dollars in lost sales, said Howard Lincoln, chairman of Nintendo of
America, which is based in suburban Redmond.
The counterfeit games have shown up in Asia, Latin America, Europe and
the Middle East as well as the United States, Nintendo said.
The suit seeks immediate termination of illegal production, seizure of
all counterfeit games and monetary damages that Lincoln said would be
in the ``millions of millions of dollars.''
Samsung said it had no idea its chips were winding up in counterfeit
Nintendo games.
``Nintendo's action is the equivalent of suing a diskette or computer
vendor because you found pirated software on one of their disks,''
Samsung Semiconductor, the San Jose, Calif.-based subsidiary of Samsung
Electronics, said in a statement released through its public-relations
firm.
U.S. companies such as Nintendo and software giant Microsoft Corp. have
long complained of pirated products that they say have cost them
billions of dollars in sales. Lost also are U.S. technology, jobs and
markets, they say.
Donkey Kong Country is the fastest-selling game ever produced by
Nintendo, the world's leading video-game manufacturer. Since it was
introduced late last year, about 6 million copies have been sold.
``Counterfeiters always go for a kill on the most popular games.
Certainly, Donkey Kong Country is the most popular video game we've
ever produced on a worldwide basis,'' Lincoln said in a telephone
interview.
Lincoln said he and other Nintendo officials met with senior Samsung
executives in November in Redmond to spell out concerns over
counterfeiting involving older Nintendo video games. Nintendo wasn't
aware at that point that Samsung-produced chips were also going into
counterfeit copies of Donkey Kong Country, Lincoln said.
He said Samsung executives promised to stop the counterfeiting, but
didn't.
Nintendo found out about bogus Donkey Kong Country cartridges two weeks
ago, following tips from video-game distributors at the Consumer
Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Lincoln said. Nintendo has since gotten
hold of counterfeit copies of the games in different parts of the
world.
``I find the whole thing almost incredible, that a company of this
alleged stature would be doing this. And yet, the fact of the matter is
we have proof that they are doing it,'' Lincoln said. ``How high the
knowledge of this goes is anyone's guess.''
Samsung denied it was knowingly manufacturing chips for use in
counterfeit Nintendo games.
``Their action is all the more disappointing because Samsung has for
some time aggressively sought to identify and disengage from any
customers engaged in illegitimate business practices,'' Samsung said.
In fact, Samsung said, it stopped doing business with one customer as a
result of an investigation prompted by Nintendo concerns.
Nintendo has had a longstanding business relationship with Samsung, the
world's largest computer memory-chip maker. The Korean conglomerate
produces specialized components used in Nintendo video games, including
the 32-bit microprocessor chips used in Donkey Kong Country.
Lincoln said Nintendo's business relationship with Samsung ``will be
reviewed.'' He stopped short of saying whether Nintendo will sever ties
with Samsung, one of its major suppliers.
