Australian PM stands by queen's representative in child abuse scandal
Australia faces constitutional turmoil a week before the queen's arrival
after the prime minister refused an opposition call to sack her
representative here over a deepening child abuse scandal.
Prime Minister John Howard said he had found no grounds on which to
advise the queen to terminate Governor-General Peter Hollingworth's
appointment despite claims he had covered up complaints of child sex
abuse.
"People will say, and he has admitted, that he has probably been guilty
of some errors of judgment in relation to certain matters, but that is
for none of us, to use the colloquialism, of itself a hanging offence,"
Howard told reporters.
Howard announced his backing for the Governor-General after opposition
Labor leader Simon Crean told him Labor had withdrawn its support for
Hollingworth and sought his dismissal.
But the prime minister said sacking Hollingworth would be unprecedented
and the equivalent of a constitutional earthquake.
However, constitutional experts say an Australian governor-general
requires bipartisan political support to continue in office and
withdrawal of that support creates a constitutional minefield.
Professor George Williams, one of Australia's leading experts in
constitutional law, said the government was under pressure to consider
the opposition call.
"We cannot afford to have a governor-general who does not have the
support of both parties and, at the least, I hope we have some sort of
process that might enable the opposition to regain their support of the
governor general," he said.
Professor Elaine Thompson said the withdrawal of Labor support meant
Hollingworth had lost legitimacy in the view of one side of politics.
"The entire justification for the constitutional monarchy rests on the
idea that it is a symbolic position above politics and won't be
subjected to this sort of partisanship," she told AFP.
Hollingworth has admitted he appointed as head of an Anglican sexual
abuse committee a priest he had personally cleared of child sex abuse
and who was forced to step down only after another allegation against
him.
The Governor-General also sparked a storm of protest by blaming a
14-year-old girl who was sexually abused by a priest who later became a
bishop -- and taking no action against the bishop.
A 10-page statement he issued on Wednesday expressing regret but
avoiding an apology hardened attitudes against him.
But as he left for New Zealand Thursday to meet the queen on the first
leg of a tour that will bring her to Australia, Hollingworth said he
wanted to make an unreserved apology to the woman sexually abused as a
14-year-old.
He said he had misunderstood a question during an interview screened by
ABC television on Monday and wrongly gave the impression he condoned
child sex abuse.
Queensland state Labor Premier Peter Beattie who will host a
Commonwealth leaders summit to be opened by the queen at Coolum on
March 2 also called on Howard to dismiss or suspend Hollingworth before
the queen arrives pending an open inquiry.
Child protection activists and women's groups expressed outrage at
Howard's support for Hollingworth.
"I'm very angry that he has decided to make this decision," said Hetty
Johnston, director of the People's Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse.
"At the end of the day, he's the only man who can do the right thing by
Australian children."
