New Yorker Doing His Part to Promote Title Defense 
If people in the New York City boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn or on
suburban Long Island don't know that Kevin Kelley is going to defend
his title Saturday night, it's not the WBC featherweight champion's
fault.
Numerous billboards in those areas proclaim:
``Doing it New York-style: Catch Kevin Kelly Jan. 7 defend his title.''
The ads are sponsored by Kelley, an athletic gear company endorsed by
the fighter, and the American cable television channel Home Box Office
(HBO), which will show Kelley's performance in a championship
doubleheader at Freeman Coliseum.
Kelley, of Queens, will defend the 57-kilogram (126-pound) title
against Alejandro Gonzalez of Mexico.
Wilfredo Vazquez of Puerto Rico will defend the WBA junior
featherweight title against Orlando Canizales of the United States,
moving up in weight after defending the IBF bantamweight championship
16 times, a record for the 53.5-kilogram (118-pound) division.
Kelley, 41-0 with 29 knockouts, will be making his fourth title
defense. Although he has not seen Gonzalez fight, Kelley knows what to
expect.
``I know he's a Mexican, who is typically aggressive and throws left
hooks, and I know he wants something I've got,'' the left-handed Kelley
said of Gonzalez, 34-2 with 24 knockouts.
Both of Kelley's title defenses were in 1994, when he fought four
times.
On his 1995 schedule, he said he might fight more often, but ``it
depends on economics. I fight according to how much money I get.''
Canizales 38-1-1 with 29 knockouts, is moving up to the 50.5 kilograms
(122 pounds) because of trouble making the bantamweight limit. No
matter what happens Saturday, he said, ``I'm not going back down to 118
pounds (53.5 kilos).''
Of Vasquez, 41-6-3 with 32 knockouts, Canizales said, ``He's a pretty
tough guy, who can punch with both hands. But I can adapt to any
style.''
The Vazquez-Canizales fight is scheduled to start at about 8 p.m. (0200
GMT), with the Kelley-Gonzales bout to begin about an hour later.
