North Korea reactor work may begin in November: report 
Construction of a North Korean light-water nuclear reactor is likely to
begin in November in a project backed by a consortium involving South
Korea, Japan and the United States, a newspaper here said Saturday.
The Sankei Shimbun, quoting Japanese government sources, said the
Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organisation (KEDO) was finalising
the plan in an effort to conclude the seven-year project by 2003 as
scheduled.
KEDO was established in 1995 under a US-North Korea nuclear deal to
provide Pyongyang with less-controversial light-water reactors to
replace North Korea's graphite-moderated reactors, which produce
weapons-grade plutonium.
The planned light-water reactor will be located in the costal town of
Sinpo some 270 kilometers (165 miles) northeast of Pyongyang, the
newspaper said.
But budget problems have remained unsolved as the project's estimated
cost has swollen from 4.5 billion dollars to five billion dollars, the
newspaper and government officials said.
Some South Korean officials have forecast the final price tag would
even go as high as six billion dollars to meet North Korea's request
for the construction of roads and other auxiliary facilities.
Japan has been expected to offer some 100 billion yen (926 million
dollars), but government sources recently said Tokyo would likely
shoulder more than 20 percent of the cost. South Korea is expected to
take on more than half of the cost.
In New York, North Korea and KEDO resumed negotiations on Thursday over
the issue, focusing on the project site, and the provision of North
Korean labour, goods, facilities and services linked to the project.
During the talks, the two sides have reportedly agreed in principle on
the issues of labour and goods needed for the construction. Pyongyang
and KEDO have also agreed to guarantee the status of engineers and
workers during the work, the Sankei said.
The talks in New York are the continuation of an earlier round in North
Korea at the end of July, during which the North Korean side reportedly
argued that its workers on the project should be paid special wages.
