Mexican Central Bank to Keep Credit Tight This Year 
Mexico's central bank will cut credits to commercial banks by more than
80 percent in 1995 as part of government efforts to reduce inflation
and pull the country out of its economic crisis, a top official said
Thursday.
Loans from the Banco de Mexico will be limited to 10 billion pesos this
year (dlrs 1.48 billion at current exchange rates), compared with 66
billion pesos in 1994, deputy governor Ariel Buira Seira said in an
interview.
Mexico spent heavily on imports last year, building up the dlrs 28
billion trade deficit that contributed to the collapse of the peso and
the country's current economic malaise. Mexico faces a recession and
more than 30 percent inflation this year.
A government program to dampen consumption has nearly eliminated the
trade deficit in the first two months of this year, Buira Seira said.
Besides tightening central bank credit, which keeps interest rates high
and dampens consumption, Mexico has boosted the national sales tax from
10 percent to 15 percent and increased prices for gasoline and
electricity.
``Inflation will peak in April because of these recent measures,''
Buira Seira said, predicting a much lower inflation rate next year.
``Given a strong fiscal position and tight monetary policy, inflation
can be expected to decline very quickly.''
The government expects foreign investment and overseas borrowing to
provide financing needed to keep the hobbled Mexican economy moving,
Buira Seira added.
``The central bank will not give credit beyond (10 billion pesos),'' he
said. ``But that doesn't mean credit to the economy will be limited to
this.''
Foreigners invested dlrs 8.5 billion in business ventures in Mexico in
1994, and the government expects about the same amount this year, said
Alejandro Valenzeuela, a spokesman for the secretary of finance.
The government issued large amounts of short-term debt at high interest
rates to foreign investors. The withdrawal of that money last year
helped spark the run on the peso that sent the currency crashing in
late December.
``Mexico wishes to rely less on short-term capital because it has
proven to be very volatile,'' Buira Seira said. ``But it does want
investment and is particularly interested in direct investment.
Investors will find that there are a lot of very good opportunities.''
Mexico intends to return to economic growth by significantly boosting
its exports, according to the recovery plan outlined recently by
President Ernesto Zedillo.
