Report: U.S. Coupon Wealth Largely Untapped
Billions of dollars of coupon savings are wasted every year, and Americans
are missing out on countless money-saving opportunities, according to a
report issued by the federal Department Of Consumer Savings.  Report:
U.S. Coupon Wealth Largely Untapped
Despite the stagnating economy and the threat of inflation, Americans
continue to pay full price for such items as salad dressing,
conditioner, and laundry detergent. As a result, coupons cumulatively
worth over $5.3 billion go unredeemed, a statistic that "concerned" DCS
Secretary Edward Fellowes.
"Personal savings are down in fiscal 2005, primarily because Americans
are unwilling to cash in on these amazing rebates," Fellowes said.
"Simply purchasing any Boca-brand meatless product at a 75-cent
discount could spur vast growth in other key economic areas such as
cold-sore medication, halogen light bulbs, and the entire frozen-foods
sector."
Although these coupons can easily be found in flyers tucked between the
sections of a Sunday newspaper, in racks in front of retail stores, or
even on the ground, the report revealed that as many as seven in 10
Americans have not redeemed a coupon in two years.
In a time in which personal debt is at a record high, Fellowes said
that such financial lassitude is "America's shame."
"Twenty years ago, a 50-cent coupon for Mazola corn oil produced runs
on supermarkets so large that rain checks had to be issued by the tens
of thousands," Fellowes said. "Today, such a discount receives barely
an acknowledgment from the public. Even two-thirds of all issued rain
checks are unused."
The DCS report also connected the decline of take-home wages in the
past five years to the public's reluctance to redeem a $1.50 rebate on
Duracell AA-sized batteries in the fall of 1999.
Enlarge Image Report: U.S. Coupon Wealth Largely Untapped
Coupon users in a Grand Forks, ND grocery store.
To raise more awareness of the potential savings bonanzas available,
the DCS has launched a campaign in which operatives hand coupons
directly to consumers, often right in front of the establishment where
they can be redeemed. The campaign, scheduled to last through the
holiday season, will cost taxpayers an estimated $10 million, but the
cost will be made up for as long as Americans use the coupons, Fellowes
said.
"Brushing past the operatives or throwing their handouts in the trash
only hurts the American consumer in the long run," Fellowes said.
"After all, 30 cents off Downy fabric softener is 30 cents toward a new
home."
Consumer advocacy groups such as the Foundation For Shoppers' Issues,
however, contend that when it comes to coupon use, too many
restrictions apply.
"There's a myriad of complications with coupon use," FSI spokesperson
Leslie Frye said. "Certain coupons are not valid with other offers, and
participation among stores may vary. Also, if consumers do not hurry,
there is a significant risk that the coupons will reach their
expiration dates."
Outgoing Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan appeared to side with
the conclusions of the DCS report. A regular coupon clipper with a
Sam's Club membership, Greenspan has warned against rash disregard of
coupon use for years. In a statement reacting to the report's findings,
he said that unless Americans start becoming "smart shoppers," families
and possibly the country at large will experience a sharp economic
downturn. He also called for retailers to offer more double-coupon
days, and for coupon-issuing businesses to improve perforation
standards, so coupons can be more easily separated from their
promotional materials without tearing.
"Coupons need to be out of the kitchen drawer and into the cash
register if this economy has any chance of turning around," Greenspan
said. "I'd also like to draw particular attention to the recent
two-for-$5 deal on all flavors of Doritos-brand chips,
buy-two-get-one-free deals on Wizard air fresheners, and, perhaps most
importantly, box-top proofs of purchase on many Betty Crocker products,
which, when redeemed, raise funds for schools nationwide."
"Every little bit helps," Greenspan added.
