Saudi five-year plan to focus on economic reforms
Saudi Arabia is on the verge of launching its sixth five-year
development plan that will give priority to reforming its economy to
neutralise the damaging effects of low oil prices.
The 1995-1999 plan is expected to witness strict financial discipline
as officials have already made clear spending cuts would be the main
feature of the coming budgets to trim the deficit and ease rising debt.
Bankers in Saudi Arabia said they expected an average 40 billion
dollars would be spent annually through the five-year plan, close to
the level in the previous year and nearly half the annual expenditure
during the oil boom.
"According to our information, there is a strong trend to keep
expenditure at an average 40 billion dollars a year although the
Kingdom's oil production is likely to rise in the next few years," one
banker said.
"The new five-year plan will envisage spending almost equivalent to the
previous plan's expenditure of around 200 billion dollars. This of
course does not include financial contributions to the liberation of
Kuwait."
Saudi Arabia paid more than 50 billion dollars to the US-led
multinational coalition that ousted Iraqi forces from Kuwait in
February 1991 after nearly seven months of occupation.
The payments, coupled with low oil prices and unchanged Saudi output,
sharply pushed up the budget deficit. This forced Riyadh to slash
spending in 1994 to 42.66 billion dollars from 52.53 billion dollars in
1993, reducing the shortfall to around 1.2 billion dollars from 7.4
billion dollars.
King Fahd on Friday announced plans for another 20 percent cut next
year.
A general outline of the sixth development plan, obtained by AFP on
Thursday, showed it would concentrate on economic reforms,
rationalisation of expenditure, upgrading efficiency in public
facilities and training of local manpower as part of plans to reduce
reliance on foreigners.
"The main objectives of this plan include increasing the role of the
private sector in the national economy without affecting the standard
of services and a continuation of the policy to lessen reliance on oil
in order to achieve a real change in the country's economic structure,"
it showed.
"The plan will also concentrate on development of the local manpower,
improvement of performance at public utilities, and expansion of the
productive base, especially in industry, farming and mining."
Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil producer and exporter, has
announced plans to privatise its communication, aviation, post and
other sectors to tap the enormous resources of its private sector and
gradually remove heavy government subsidies that constitute an added
burden on the budget.
Apart from persistent budget shortfalls, low oil prices have created
deficits in Saudi Arabia's balance of payments and turned it from a
creditor into a debtor country. Its overseas ionvestments of more than
120 billion dollars, once a key source of income, have also been
sapped.
"The decline in Gulf oil revenues is not a temporary phenomenon," Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) assistant secretary general for economic
affairs, Abdullah al-Quwaiz, said in press remarks this week. "It is
due to significant changes in the oil market and the drop in their
overseas reserves."
Saudi Arabia, which controls a quarter of the world's oil reserves,
earned in early the 1980s as much as twice as its current income of
around 45 billion dollars and expenditure was running at an average 70
billion dollars a year.
Although the infrastructure was nearly completed, the kingdom needed to
keep spending at relatively high levels to meet the needs of the
growing population.
Official figures showed such a growth was one of the fastest in the
world, with the population soaring from around 9.3 million in 1980 to
12.8 million in 1985, 14.8 million in 1988 and around 17 million in
1993.
For the first time in Saud Arabia's history as an oil producer,
officials this week spoke of sacrifices, a new word in the economic
lexicon of the super-rich nation.
"The citizens have been accusomted to enjoying high wages and living
standards," the Saudi Arabia Monetary Agency said in its annual report.
"But the circumstances arising from the decline in oil prices and the
Gulf war burden, in addition to an increase in demand for services due
to a population growth, are creating new expenditure and burdens on the
national economy which require further efforts to tolerate the
sacrifices of accommodating ourselves to the new conditions."
