German industrial workers to strike from Monday
Members of Germany's powerful IG Metall union in the state of
Baden-Wuerttemberg will walk off the job next week in the first strike in
the engineering and automotive sector for seven years, representatives said
Thursday.
The strike, which could hurt Germany's budding economic recovery and
the government ahead of September elections, will be extended to the
eastern states of Berlin and Brandenberg at a later, unspecified date.
Some 50,000 workers at 21 companies in Baden-Weurttemberg, which is
home to auto giant DaimlerChrysler, will start strikes Monday, with
about 80 companies in all in the state expected to be affected by the
end of next week.
"No employer will be able to know from one day to the next that
production will be up and running," said IG Metall official Juergen
Peters, when the timing for the strike was announced after a meeting of
the union executive in Frankfurt.
The strikes are aimed at pressing home demands for a wage increase that
was initially set at 6.5 percent but which could probably be settled at
just over four percent.
The Gesamtmetall employers' federation last offered a 15-month deal,
including a one-off payment of 190 euros (170 dollars) for the first
two months and wage increases of 3.3 percent for the other 13 months.
The union described the offer as a provocation.
Speaking after the executive meeting, IG Metall chief Klaus Zwickel
said: "It is the employers who bear the full responsibility for the
wage conflict coming to a head."
"As the strike drags on, things won't become simpler. And it's already
clear it won't get cheaper," Zwickel said.
After weeks of short warning stoppages, the union now plans to try a
new tactic of so-called "flexi-strikes" with day-long strikes being
held by different companies on different days of the week.
"We will hit enterprises at their nerve centres -- their production
efficiency," Peters said.
Gesamtmetall has said it would not rule out resorting to lock-outs in
response to the strikes.
The way the pay dispute is resolved is expected to set the tone for
upcoming wage rounds in the mining industry, increasing its importance
for the slowly improving German economy.
Last minute calls for restraint by Economy Minister Werner Mueller have
gone unheeded by union leaders. "Strikes are not a good thing during a
period of economic upturn," Mueller has said.
And Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, whose centre-left government faces an
election on September 22, is not the only one concerned about the
strike and its effects.
"The outcome of the ongoing wage negotiations in some regions of the
euro area could become a matter of concern," European Central Bank
President Wim Duisenberg told a press conference on Thursday.
"Excessive wage increases could create additional cost pressure with
potential consequences not only for prices but also -- to an even
greater extent -- for employment creation and real gross domestic
product (GDP) growth."
Duisenberg did not specify which talks he was referring to, saying only
that "in Germany, I'm certain that people will understand very well
what I'm talking about."
The last major strikes by IG Metall, in Bavaria in 1995, left Germany's
giant automobile sector largely unscathed, but Zwickel has said the
union would have the industry in its sights this time around.
