Parliament, Other Buildings Ablaze After Russians Blitz Grozny 
A New Year's Eve assault by Russian forces on Grozny produced one of
the bloodiest days of the war in Chechnya and left both sides claiming
success.
Numerous buildings in the breakaway republic's capital, including
parliament headquarters, were ablaze after Russian ground troops surged
into the city Saturday backed by heavy artillery and rocket fire.
By the time New Year's Day had arrived, the Russians claimed to control
the railway station and many of the rebel government's buildings in
Grozny. They said they were not storming the city but merely moving to
disarm Chechen fighters and restore order.
The Chechens, however, said they had repelled what they described as an
attempt to storm their capital by dozens of tanks and tens of thousands
of troops. They said they had captured many soldiers.
``After fighting in Grozny, the Russian formations have been driven
out,'' spokesman Mavlodi Udugov declared in a frantic tone on Chechen
television Saturday night.
Even by daylight, it was hard to discern which side controlled what
areas after a day of carnage in the Grozny area. An inky black smoke
from fires at the Lenin oil refinery and elsewhere turned the ravaged
city as black as night.
A group of liberal Russian lawmakers visiting Grozny went on Chechen TV
Saturday night and urged President Boris Yeltsin: ``Stop the
bloodshed.''
But there was no immediate response from the Kremlin, nor was there
likely to be. Yeltsin chief of staff, Sergei Filatov, said Friday that
it was too late for a nonviolent situation, and the thunder of bombing
could be heard hours after the lawmakers' appeal.
In his televised New Year's Eve address, Yeltsin mentioned Chechnya
only briefly.
``For myself, there is no greater task in the next year than to restore
peace and normal life in the republic of Chechnya, in North Ossetia and
Ingushetia. Then refugees can return to their own homes. For this, we
shall spare no effort.''
The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, meanwhile was as defiant as
ever in his holiday message.
``Despite the great might of the Russian army which is attacking
Grozny, the people of Chechnya have already won a moral victory,''
Dudayev said in an address to the people of Chechnya and Russia,
according to the Interfax news agency.
Yeltsin sent an estimated 40,000 soldiers into Chechnya on Dec. 11, to
restore it to the Russian federation and end what he calls an
illegitimate, criminal regime.
Hundreds of soldiers and civilians on both sides are believed to have
been killed. Televised footage of the carnage has stirred increasing
unease in Russia and abroad.
