Peacekeepers Fight Back as Tension with Serbs Rises
French soldiers, confronting Bosnian Serbs who have taken fellow U.N.
peacekeepers hostage, stormed an observation point Saturday near
downtown Sarajevo and recaptured it from the Serbs.
Two Frenchmen were killed and five were injured in the assault, another
example of the United Nations' new, tougher policy against the Serbs
that has resulted in NATO airstrikes on the Serb headquarters over the
past two days.
One Serb was killed, and three were wounded, said peacekeepers'
spokesman Lt. Col. Gary Coward.
But it also was certain to raise tensions further. Serbs took
peacekeepers hostage Friday, chaning some of them to potential NATO
targets just outside the Bosnian capital.
Bosnian Serb soldiers dressed up as French peacekeepers, complete with
U.N. blue helmets and flak jackets, infiltrated the French observation
post and took it overnight, said U.N. spokeswoman Maj. Myriam Sochacki.
They took a French soldier hostage.
But the French came back hours later, freed the hostage, and retook the
observation post near Sarajevo's Jewish Cemetery _ one of Sarajevo's
hottest front lines close to the city center. In addition to the
Bosnian Serb who was killed, three Serbs were wounded.
The assertive reaction followed warnings by French President Jacques
Chirac that he would pull his soldiers out of Bosnia unless they are
better protected.
Chirac, Premier Alain Juppe and other top officials were meeting in
Paris and France called an urgent meeting of NATO abmassadors in
Brussels.
By early Saturday, 203 U.N. soldiers _ many of them Frenchmen _ were
being held hostage. Some were used as shields at an ammunition dump
near the Bosnian Serb headquarters at Pale, about 14 kilometers (nine
miles) southeast of Sarajevo, that was hit Thursday and Friday by NATO
war planes.
Many others were rounded up at heavy-weapons collection points around
Sarajevo. Their plight underscored the risks of the United Nations'
decision to get tough.
Late Friday, U.N. spokesmen insisted that airstrikes remained an
option. But their statements indicated the organization was hoping
diplomacy would now replace force.
``We're still actively considering airstrikes,'' said Chris Gunness, a
U.N. spokesman. ``Meanwhile, diplomatic channels with the Bosnian Serbs
are open. It is always useful to keep a twin-track approach.''
In New York, the U.N. Security Council appealed for the immediate
release of eight peacekeepers detained at Bosnian Serb headquarters
here in Pale and the other soldiers seized at weapons sites.
The peacekeepers held around Pale were shown chained to stanchions and
a door at ammunition dumps repeatedly targeted by NATO warplanes on
Thursday and Friday.
The furious Serbs retaliated for the airstrikes Thursday first by
shelling the northern city of Tuzla and other U.N. ``safe areas'' in
Bosnia, killing 76 people in one of the bloodiest nights of the
three-year war.
On Friday, they hit directly at the United Nations, illustrating the
peril of pitting lightly armed peacekeepers against warriors with
little left to lose.
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic, already a war crimes suspect, is
increasingly isolated internationally and has little choice but to
battle on against an improving Bosnian government army and a world that
insists he make peace on its terms.
He has lost the support of Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, who
instigated the Serb rebellion that launched Bosnia's war in April 1992
but is now considering recognizing Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Boxed into a corner, but still capable of inflicting great damage, the
Bosnian Serbs were talking and acting tough Friday.
A Bosnian Serb leader, Momcilo Krajisnik, said the detained U.N.
soldiers would be tried for guiding NATO planes to targets. ``The
United Nations should be worried,'' he warned. ``We can't be kind to
those who behave as enemies toward us.''
By calling in airstrikes, the United Nations was ``becoming an active
participant in the conflict,'' said Jovan Zametica, Karadzic's
spokesman. He said the Serbs would continue to defend their homeland.
Besides detaining peacekeepers, Serb forces shelled a Canadian U.N.
base at Visoko, outside Sarajevo.
Sarajevo was shelled in the morning and evening Friday. The Bosnian
Health Ministry reported early Saturday that four people had been
killed and 31 wounded in the last 24 hours. One of the dead was a
3-year-old child. Serbs cut water and electricity supplies to the city.
By Saturday, a vital road used by the United Nations to and from the
city was mined by the Serbs. The Serb also were threatening to shoot at
aircraft and vehicles trying to cross over the airport, sealing off the
city.
