PCCW-Telstra telecom joint venture to lay off 229 employees
A joint venture between the dominant telecoms in Hong Kong and Australia
said Monday it plans to lay off 229 staff as part of a new strategy.
Reach Ltd., a joint venture between Hong Kong's Pacific Century
CyberWorks Ltd. and Australia's Telstra Corp., said in a letter to its
employees that 117 of those to be made redundant would be from Hong
Kong with the remainder from its other global operations.
Reach currently has 1,200 employees in 14 countries, including 620 in
Hong Kong.
Company chief exective Alistair Grieve said the lay-offs were due to
Reach's new strategy, adding there should be no inference Reach was
facing financial difficulties "like so many of our peers in the
industry."
"We are not (facing financial difficulties). Reach is already well
placed in relation to its competitors. These changes will ensure that
there is no confusion about our business direction and they will make
us even stronger, not weaker, in an extremely competitive market," he
added.
The cuts in Hong Kong, representing around 19 percent of the workforce
here, were "quite a deep cut, so we do regard this as a one-off
incident," he told local radio.
"Now that is not to say that we can give any kind of guarantee -- it
would irresponsible of us to give any kind of guarantee that there will
be no redundancies in the future," he said.
Performance bonuses would be paid to all staff, including those who had
been made redundant, who had met or exceeded their job requirements
last year.
In addition, Reach said its redundancy packages were more generous
compared with employment contracts under local laws. However, it did
not provide financial details of the packages.
Those made redundant would be offered assistance from an outplacement
agency.
An important part of the new strategy was not to promote further its
retail business and to increase efforts to grow in the wholesale and
outsourcing markets.
"We want to make it very clear that Reach will not compete with our
customers at the retail level. We believe that approach will give us a
significant competitive advantage over other industry players," Grieve
said.
