Russia defends North Korea ahead of Bush visit
Russia defended North Korea on Monday against US claims it helped form an
"axis of evil" as a top Pyongyang official was due in Moscow just days
ahead of the arrival of US President George W.  Bush.
North Korean Foreign Minister Paek Nam-Sun is due in the Russian
capital at 7:15 pm (1515 GMT) for a 48-hour visit held against the
backdrop of a vital Russia-US summit that is set to clinch a
long-discussed nuclear disarmament deal.
But while joining the US-led campaign against terror in Afghanistan and
negotiating on nuclear weapons, Russia has also courted the isolated
regime of North Korea under the leadership of President Vladimir Putin,
who is keen to spread Moscow's influence in the Far East.
And Moscow introduced a sour note to the Bush-Putin summit Monday by
dismissing Washington's suggestions that the Stalinist regime had
supplied long-range missiles to other threatening nations.
"There are certain fears in the West about North Korea trading missile
technology," Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov was
quoted as saying by Interfax.
"These matters do not raise any great concern here," Losyukov stressed.
The senior Russian diplomat added that recent international
developments "should not obstruct the improvement of relations between
Russian and North Korea."
He further spoke of a "very favorable atmosphere in relations" between
the two sides.
Losyukov's comments came two days after foreign ministry spokesman
Alexander Yakovenko noted that "while we do not share certain
ideological or political concepts with our partners, we must seek to
build closer ties to friendly nations."
Russia had all but abandoned its Soviet-era partner following
Communism's fall, boosting trade with South Korea while North Korea's
economy imploded from lack of assistance from Moscow.
But with Putin's election, ties between the two nations have begun to
rebuild.
The Stalinist regime's leader Kim Jong-Il took an epic train ride
across Russia last summer, making his first international diplomatic
trip outside of China.
Kim is expected to visit Russia's Far East again later this year, and
North Korean officials said that Paek was bringing with him a message
from Kim to Putin.
Russian officials have said little about what may be discussed between
Paek and Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov Tuesday, although Interfax cited
Moscow sources as saying that "military technical cooperation" may
feature on the agenda.
Paek for his part told ITAR-TASS -- one of the only foreign media
groups allowed to operate in North Korea -- that Pyongyang highly rated
Russia's role as a stabilizing force in the Far East.
North Korea hopes that Russia "will continue in the future to play a
just, positive role in achieving peace and a union between North and
South Korea," Paek told ITAR-TASS.
He added that Russia had expressed its demands on the United States to
withdraw its 37,000 soldiers now stationed in South Korea during talks
between Kim and Putin last year.
"Russia has voiced its understanding that the withdrawal of the US
troops cannot wait, and that such a withdrawal will secure peace and
stability in northeast Asia," Paek said.
Analysts said that Washington and Seoul agree that a limited US force
should stay on in South Korea even after possible reunification of the
divided peninsula. But Moscow has frowned on the idea.
