Europe sees Asia aviation venture as gateway into China
European aircraft makers helping to develop a 100-seat airliner for
Asia hope the venture will also promote sales of Airbus planes to China
where Boeing is traditionally dominant.
Aerospatiale, Alenia and British Aerospace (BAe) make up the Aero
International Asia (AIA) consortium which was selected by China this
week to form a joint venture for the project.
The three European makers, of which Aerospatiale and BAe are also major
partners in Airbus, are eager to "establish technological and
industrial links with a country which has decided to develop an
aviation industry and whose potential market is huge," one of the
companies said.
The aim is both to boost the European aircraft industry's low-level
commercial ties with China, where Boeing is in a much stronger
position, and in the long term to associate Chinese industry in the
production of the Airbus so as to cut costs and increase competitivity.
In April, Airbus announced the sale of 30 of its A-320 model to China
in a deal which angered Boeing. Until then, Airbus accounted for only
seven percent of western-built airliners bought by China, where Boeing
holds 70 percent of the market with 250 aircraft in service.
Also in April, Aerospatiale seized on Chinese Prime Minister Li Peng's
visit to Toulouse, the French aircraft-building capital, to encourage
China to expand ties in this field.
In particular Beijing was urged to participate in the future programme
for large-capacity airliners of more than 500 seats which Airbus plans
to launch before 2000 to compete with Boeing's 747.
However China did not appear interested in the project for the time
being.
Boeing, left out of the 100-seater project, has meanwhile challenged
the profitability of an aircraft which will cost more than two billion
dollars to develop.
The US giant claims that China's internal market, with an expected
demand for some 300 planes, was not big enough for such an aircraft and
was more in need of large-capacity jets for mass transport.
