Yeltsin's younger daughter creeps on to international stage
Tatyana Dyachenko, Russian President Boris Yeltsin's younger daughter,
who reputedly exercises a powerful influence on her father, studiously
maintained a low profile as she accompanied him on a foreign trip for
the first time.
As the presidential aircraft touched down at Stuttgart airport in
southwest Germany on Wednesday, Dyachenko, 37, crept out from the back
of the plane, leaving her parents to shake hands with the row of
officials lined up on the red carpet.
On Thursday, the official programme said that Dyachenko, who was one of
the major forces in Yeltsin's re-election campaign last year, would
spend the day with her mother Naina, visiting castles in the Black
Forest near Baden-Baden.
However, her press spokeswoman Natalya Konstantinovna, said later that
she had decided to instead spend the day walking alone in the
pedestrianised centre of this spa town.
As Yeltsin and Chancellor Helmut Kohl gave a joint press conference,
the pack of press photographers who sought to photograph Dyachenko
searched in vain.
Dressed in a black trouser suit and easily recognisable, with her short
haircut and full figure, Tatyana Dyachenko hid herself at the back of
the room and as soon as Kohl said there would be only one more
question, she slipped away.
Only at the evening ceremony during which Yeltsin was presented with
the prestigious German media prize did his daughter allow herself
briefly to be filmed by the cameras.
Konstantinovna explained that the award was the only reason for which
she took part in the trip, saying: "She wanted to be there to welcome
the recognition given her father on this occasion."
Such a stance is unlikely to quell the rumours of Kremlin intrigue
which have swirled around the mother of two and former space engineer.
Dyachenko has no official title, but the Kremlin hinted in December
that she could well have one soon or later.
However, the discretion which has characterised the Baden-Baden visit
could mean that the Kremlin has abandoned the idea.
Konstantinovna, meanwhile, implied that the influence she exercises is
nothing out of the ordinary.
"Any daughter has a strong influence on her father, including me," she
told AFP.
