Dalmas goes for fourth win in six Le Mans races 
Frenchman Yannick Dalmas attempts to win his fourth Le Mans 24 hours
race here this weekend in only six outings.
The 34-year-old former Formula One driver returns to the Porsche team
after driving a McLaren to victory last year, with Porsche hoping that
they regain their mantle of being the dominant force in the unique
race.
Dalmas, world sports car champion in 1992, drove a Porsche to victory
in 1994 and he is part of a formidable team for them this year. His two
fellow drivers are Austrian Karl Wendlinger, nearly killed during
practice at the 1994 Monaco Grand Prix, and Indycar driver Scott
Goodyear.
Although Wendlinger crashed the Porsche in practice on Wednesday Dalmas
is not too concerned.
"The mechanics did an excellent job on the car and I am very confident
that we can compete with McLaren," he said.
Although a Dalmas victory would delight the home crowd there is no
doubt that for the sentimentalists in the stands a victory for
Italian-born American Mario Andretti would be the ideal result.
The 56-year-old Andretti has won everything in top class motor racing
apart from the Le Mans race. He won the Indy 500 in 1969 and the
Formula One drivers championship in 1978 with Lotus, but he has not won
in five attempts at Le Mans.
"The Le Mans thing became to me something of a symbol because of the
terrible tragedy of 1955 when 82 people were killed by a car spinning
into them. I was 15 at the time and on my way to live in the States and
that's when it really hit home, the magnitude of the event," Andretti
said.
Tragedy struck Andretti on a personal level in Formula One when his
Swedish Lotus teammate Ronnie Peterson was killed at the 1978 Italian
Grand Prix at Monza.
Andretti himself has only ever missed out on two races because of
injuries in 36 years of racing, remarkable by any standards.
The 12 time Grand Prix winner, inspired by legendary Lotus boss Colin
Chapman, gained his first ride at Le Mans in 1966 for Ford and now
faces his second successive drive for the French team Courage powered
with a Porsche engine.
Despite winning the Indy 500 in only his third start he never won
another in the next 26 although he often came desperately close.
"Yes, if Indy had been 400 miles I would have had six trophies on my
sideboard. I don't know how to explain that. The man upstairs has the
last word. When its your day, its your day," said the ever phlegmatic
Andretti.
