Campaign for Moslem regional elections starts without key candidate 
Campaigning for regional elections crucial to a peace pact with
Philippine Moslem rebels was officially launched Thursday without
incident, though key candidate and insurgent leader Nur Misuari did not
seek public support.
Observers said President Fidel Ramos and Misuari, the key players in
the peace agreement, want to consolidate wide backing for their accord
before beginning a high-profile campaign, fearful of a backlash from an
angry Christian majority in the region.
Misuari, chairman of the Moslem insurgent Moro National Liberation
Front (MNLF), has agreed, as part of the peace process, to run as the
ruling party's official candidate for governor of an existing
four-province Moslem autonomous region in the south.
However, on the first day of the formal campaign period he was in the
southern city of General Santos, meeting with political and business
leaders.
An aide said Misuari would stay in General Santos for a few more days
before returning to the rebel bastion of Jolo to launch his campaign.
Ramos is scheduled to meet later Thursday with the country's Roman
Catholic bishops, who have demanded that any peace deal with the MNLF
should include representation of Christian interests.
A rally by Ramos's ruling Lakas (Strength) party, scheduled to take
place Thursday in Jolo to officially proclaim Misuari's candidacy, has
been postponed until Ramos and other top officials can attend, party
sources told AFP.
Misuari, 55, who has led the MNLF in battling central government for
more than 20 years, made a dramatic about-turn earlier this month when
he announced he had accepted an offer to run for political office with
Manila's backing after the signing of the interim peace agreement.
Analysts believe Misuari's candidacy showed the rebel leading had opted
for the electoral process over guns and signalled the end of the MNLF's
24-year armed struggle for a separate Moslem homeland in the southern
Philippines.
But Christians, a majority in the southern Philippines, have opposed
the provisional peace accord because it also calls for the creation of
an MNLF-led regional council to supervise development projects in 14
southern provinces.
The council is intended to prepare for the establishment within three
years of a wider autonomous region in the same 14 provinces, as
demanded by MNLF in return for ceasing hostilities.
