Ten-man Arsenal edge Blackburn and keep the heat on Man Utd 
Second-placed Arsenal kept hot on the heels of Premiership leaders
Manchester United by snatching a 3-2 win at Blackburn on Wednesday
despite having Ukraine international Oleg Luzhny sent off.
The win saw Arsenal move to within a point of United with a game in
hand while there were also wins for fellow challengers Newcastle, who
came from behind to beat Spurs 3-1, and Liverpool, who edged Leicester
1-0 with a rare goal by their opponents former darling Emile Heskey.
Leeds, though, were overwhelmed 2-0 at Chelsea showing that a 10 day
rest doesn't always bear out managers moans about playing too many
matches in a short space of time and they need to beat Liverpool on
Sunday to stay in touch with the leading quartet.
Arsenal were cruising with Dennis Bergkamp and Thierry Henry putting
the Gunners 2-0 ahead.
But the Londoners allowed the home side to draw level and then had
Luzhny dismissed for two rash challenges as he became the 43rd Arsenal
player to see red during manager Arsene Wenger's five-and-a-half-year
reign.
Matt Jansen scored twice to put Blackburn level at half-time but
Bergkamp had the final say by netting the winning goal 15 minutes from
time to leave Blackburn fourth from bottom.
Clarence Acuna, Alan Shearer and Craig Bellamy punished Tottenham's
sloppy defence as sting after Steffen Iversen slammed home a
16th-minute opener.
Newcastle, badly missing injured midfield trio Kieron Dyer, Gary Speed
and Rob Lee, had no answer to Tottenham's slick passing moves and
further goals seemed destined to follow.
But in a remarkable turn-about of events, Spurs went to sleep in the
second half and gifted their visitors three goals.
Up until six weeks ago, Newcastle hated travelling to the capital, and
had failed to win in London in 29 attempts.
But they put that right at the 30th time of asking when they went to
Highbury and won 3-1.
They made it two out of two as they showed great fighting spirit to
beat Spurs by the same scoreline.
Heskey took out his goal drought frustrations against hored in the
second half with a fine chip over Ian Walker after a run from midfield,
his first since November and only his second in 35 games for club and
country since August.
Chelsea reignited their challenge for Champions League qualification -
if not the title itself - with a deserved victory Leeds.
The Blues, now two points behind David O'Leary's man who are in fifth
position, struck after just 95 seconds through Eidur Gudjohnsen's
superb curling shot - a perfect way to celebrate his second child being
born on Tuesday.
And the Blues doubled their lead amid controversy just after the half
hour when the ball appeared to hit Sam dalla Bona's arm before the
young Italian fired home the second.
However Leeds Uunited coach Eddie Gray, who stood in as spokesman as
manager David O'Leary had just returned from an operation, conceded the
right team had won.
"That was a great finish from Gudjohnsen and the second goal seemed
fair enough to me," he admitted with refreshing candour for a losing
coach.
"This result doesn't make it very easy for us but I thought we were a
bit too slack tonight and deserved to lose," the former Scottish
international added.
Chelsea manager Claudio Ranieri was delighted with the efforts of his
side after three tough matches in the past week.
"It was fantastic because I was a little bit worried after playing so
many matches in the past week," he said.
The Italian also displayed a sense of humour, over the appalling state
of the pitch, showing his English lessons have paid off as he has
virtually dispensed with his interpreter.
"The pitch was fantastic, for football and even for growing potatoes!"
Ipswich climbed out of the Premiership's bottom three with an
invaluable 1-0 win at home to Fulham, their sixth victory in seven
matches at Portman Road.
George Burley's side were seemingly down-and-out six weeks ago with
just one league win all season.
But 18 points from a possible 21, thanks in no small part to the goals
of Marcus Bent, have them better placed to become the first side in 10
years of the Premier League to be bottom at Christmas and survive.
It was Bent's 10th-minute goal - his sixth in six matches since joining
from Blackburn - that settled the contest in front of the Suffolk
club's best crowd of the season.
Fabrice Fernandes' thunderbolt and Kevin Davies' lucky tap-in upstaged
Paolo di Canio as Southampton clinched a 2-0 success against West Ham
at St Mary's Stadium.
A new Saints record crowd of 31,879 endured an incredibly dull first
period, which only livened up just before the interval when David James
flapped at a free-kick and the ball bounced into his net via Davies'
stomach.
The s switch from Rennes a month ago - a blistering 63rd-minute
free-kick - almost ripping the net.
Di Canio started for West Ham after the collapse of his transfer
tug-of-war with Manchester United.
The gifted Italian striker seems destined to stay at Upton Park after
United forward Dwight Yorke's move to Middlesbrough, which would have
created space for di Canio at Old Trafford, fell through after Boro
could not match his wage demands.
Aston Villa began life after John Gregory with a low-key performance as
Everton continued their mini revival with a hard-earned point in an
uninspiring 0-0 draw at Villa Park.
