Peace Talks Resume Without Sick Chechen Negotiator 
Peace talks resumed in breakaway Chechnya today but the head Chechen
representative remained too sick to rejoin the negotiations.
The talks were suspended on Sunday after Usman Imayev fell ill. Both
sides have spent the last four days consulting with their governments.
Imayev was replaced today by Khozakhmed Yarikhanov, head of education
under Chechen president Dzhokhar Dudayev.
The negotiations began two hours later than planned after a night of
intense fighting in the Chechen capital, the ITAR-Tass news agency
reported.
Rebel fighters fired at Russian troops in an area of Grozny where
Russian negotiators are staying, ITAR-Tass said. At least three Russian
servicemen were wounded in this and other attacks around the city.
The talks began a month ago with both sides declaring cease-fires.
The negotiators have reached several preliminary agreements on troop
withdrawals and elections, but have been stuck on the issue of
Chechnya's status.
``This day will show a lot,'' Russian delegate Arkady Volsky said
today.
President Boris Yeltsin sent tens of thousands of troops into Chechnya
in December to oust its separatist government.
The war has claimed thousands of lives, most of them civilian, and
devastated much of Grozny and several major towns in the tiny, Caucasus
Mountains region.
The Chechens want autonomy, while the Russians insist that the question
be put aside until after fall elections.
The top Russian negotiator, Nationalities Minister Vyacheslav
Mikhailov, said the talks have boiled down to two fundamental
questions: the ``integrity of a state and the self-determination of a
people.''
Chechen delegate Akhmed Zakayev said the negotiators would begin
discussing military issues on Friday, the Interfax news agency
reported.
Meanwhile, Russia's Constitutional Court is considering the legality of
Yeltsin's decrees launching the seven-month war. Kremlin officials have
said they hope for a ruling by the end of the week.
Finance Minister Vladimir Panskov told parliament today that
restoration of the war-torn republic would cost $1 billion, ITAR-Tass
said.
