Bildt calls for means to arrest Bosnian war criminals 
The top civilian official in Bosnia, Carl Bildt, appealed Saturday for
the means to arrest indicted war criminals, many of whom are living
unhindered in the Balkan republic despite their whereabouts being
known.
"If the countries of the Security Council meant what they said when
they contributed to the creation of the tribunal, it is certainly
within their power to design a mechanism and take the actions which
will be necessary," said Bildt in a statement published in Sarajevo.
He acknowledged that the UN-led troops on the ground in Bosnia are not
there to carry out criminal investigations or other law-enforcement
activities for which they are not trained.
But he added that means had to be created "in order to ensure that one
faction or the other simply does not make a complete mockery of the
international community."
The leaders of the three communities in Bosnia agreed when they signed
the Dayton peace accords to arrest any suspects wanted for war crimes
and deliver them to the international criminal tribunal in The Hague.
A list of 74 men indicted by the tribunal has been distributed to all
IFOR units. Among those names on the list are former Bosnian Serb
president Radovan Karadzic and his military chief General Ratko Mladic.
However, Karadzic's successor Biljana Plavsic has said that the two men
will not be extradited.
The majority of those indicted have been located, and some still retain
their official functions.
Four policemen -- Mladen Radic, Zeljko Meakic, Miroslav Kvocka and
Nedjelko Timarac -- wanted for alleged involvement in war crimes at the
notorious Omarska and Keraterm concentration camps still retain their
police force jobs in Omarska and Prijedor despite a request by the
tribunal for them to be arrested.
But the UN police do not have a mandate to detain the suspects, and for
their part, IFOR commanders have said that their troops' mission is not
to carry out a "manhunt."
There are also problems of physically identifying some of those wanted
since photographic records are incomplete.
"The issue of indicted war criminals running loose around the country
unhindered, unaccountable and unsought by anyone is a scandal that
threatens to become the Srebenica of our time -- a scandal that haunts
those who were negligent and that insults its victims," Bildt said.
