Although the United Nations is unlikely to acknowledge it publicly, the
establishment of the camp has reduced pressure upon Pakistan to accept
the displaced as refugees. While condemning Pakistan's decision to
close the border, the agency has in effect acquiesced to it.
The Agency: End of Cold War Alters Mission
Because it was founded as a temporary agency at the time of the cold
war, (its life span in 1951 was supposed to be three years, and it has
been renewed in five-year intervals), the High Commissioner's office
evolved an arcane method of financing. Its budget -- $1.3 billion for
1993 -- is raised by making appeals for specific causes to donor
governments, usually the United States, the European Union and Japan.
Contributions can be earmarked for particular countries. As a result,
donations for a cause such as repatriation in Cambodia, where the
suffering under the Pol Pot regime touched a sympathetic chord around
the world, ends up being over-subscribed. And repatriation in
Mozambique, where a long-fought war is winding down in obscurity, does
not raise enough money.
The system of financing also means that the agency is a hostage to
publicity. It needs extensive coverage of a catastrophe by the
international media in order to exert pressure upon governments to
contribute. The problem is that the coverage is usually effective only
after the catastrophe is out of hand and television screens are filled
with footage of ragged, starving children. And by then, of course, it
is too late.
International aid officials also point out that they are often left to
deal with diplomatic failures when ethnic conflicts arise and the world
stands by unable or unwilling to intervene militarily. The reluctance
of the United States to become involved in Rwanda, for example, stemmed
in part from the debacle of its intervention in Somalia, where American
troops, deployed to fight famine, eventually withdrew ignominiously
with the image of hostile interlopers.
Aid officials say privately that in the case of Rwanda, one problem in
meeting Secretary General Boutrous Boutrous-Ghali's appeal for $400
million in emergency assistance was that news broadcasts in the United
States were preoccupied with the situation in Haiti and the
tribulations of O.J. Simpson. When donations finally came, many were
inappropriate. What was needed urgently in Rwanda was not money nor
bulk foodstuffs but drinking water and latrines. The profusion of
irrelevant aid sometimes got in the way.
The agency has an emergency budget of $25 million and in some trouble
spots around the world has stocks of food and medicines to prepare for
emergencies. But the disaster in Rwanda was so great that such
precautions were pitifully inadequate.
The method of financing also leads to a sense that the emergencies are
in a way competing with one another and, since there is almost always a
shortfall, perhaps exaggerating the sum the sponsors say is required.
The greatest fear of all is what Mrs. Ogata calls ``donor fatigue,''
although she says that she is satisfied with the results so far. ``We
were fully funded last year,'' she said.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
Supporters of the policy of working inside countries like Afghanistan
and Bosnia assert that it is an effective way of trying to deal with
the problem of dislocated people closer to the source, before they
become a full-scale international burden. But critics charge that the
internal camps do not allow the people to integrate easily into a local
economy, that they are often less provided for and that the people are
not always out of harm's way.
It is a way of accommodating the world's unwillingness to accept more
refugees, they say.
``The move to assist internally displaced is an attempt to reduce these
huge refugee flows and I think it's failed,'' said Mark Duffield, a
senior lecturer in the School of Public Policy at the University of
Birmingham, England. ``Look at Bosnia. Up to 50 percent of Bosnians are
internally displaced now but the U.N. has been unable to protect
them.''
Duffield said that the tide of refugees is caused by what he terms
``resource wars,'' a scramble for dwindling assets as the gulf between
rich and poor countries widens.
``Resource wars often have a heightened ethnic character,'' he said.
``There is frequently a cold logic at work. What appears at a distance
to be inexplicable barbaric acts is the systematic purging of one group
by another to rob them of their assets. There are winners and there are
losers.''
(MORE)
