APEC declaration should have gone further, say commentators
Asia-Pacific leaders took the useful first concrete step towards
liberalising trade at their annual APEC talking shop, but more needs to
be done, commentators said Tuesday.
US President Bill Clinton and the other 17 leaders at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum commited themselves at their annual
summit in the Philippines on Monday to start taking down trade barriers
from January 1.
The group's trade liberalisation schedule, tagged the Manila Action
Plan, commits APEC to free trade among developed members by 2010 and
2020 for the rest.
Following last-minute lobbying by US President Bill Clinton, the forum
approved a statement backing Washington's proposal to eliminate
barriers to trade in high-tech goods by 2000, despite some misgivings.
"The most concrete development to come out of the meeting may be the
leaders' call for all countries to push the global trade agenda forward
at a crucial meeting of the World Trade Organisation in Singapore next
month," said Laura Tingle, chief political correspondent of the
Australian daily, The Age.
Major Japanese newspapers urged APEC members to go beyond pledges.
"We believe that many important issues have been left unresolved due to
conflicting interests among the group's member economies," the Yomiuri
Shimbun said.
The Yomiuri was critical of "some Southeast Asian nations" as well as
the United States and Japan.
"Some Southeast Asian nations, which have started to show signs of
cooling economies, were conspicuously lukewarm toward the
liberalization goal.
"The United States was particularly enthusiastic over the idea of
promoting debate among members to conclude an agreement on information
technology, but otherwise its action plan lacked boldness.
"Japan, for its part, failed to offer any fresh liberalization ideas,
with the possible exception of one regarding the extension of validity
dates for visas held by citizens of other APEC members," the Yomiuri
said.
The Nihon Keizai Shimbun said the action plans made by each APEC member
were "only the first step."
The Jakarta Post warned the benefits of free trade will not be shared
equally. Stronger economies such as the United States and Japan will
certainly benefit more from APEC than a country such as Papua New
Guinea, it said.
And they had a pat on the back for the Philippines for receiving the 18
leaders without a major glitch. A Hong Kong newspaper deemed it a
"triumph" for the host of the weekend's Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) forum summit, President Fidel Ramos.
Ramos drew praise from the Hong Kong Standard which said he "must
surely be overjoyed" that the forum "ended without the security dangers
and local protests that threatened to disrupt the summit."
While labelling the event a "triumph," the newspaper expressed the hope
that it "will not prompt him to consider constitutional changes to give
him another crack at the presidency."
It was alluding to moves by his supporters in the Philippines to
campaign for overriding a single-term rule.
Philippines commentators too said the country should be happy as major
problems were avoided.
"The party's over. Now comes the hard part," the Philippine Star
newspaper said in an editorial, adding, "it's time for everyone to
hunker down to making APEC work for Filipinos."
