The legend began when he first walked onstage, a brutal angel shouting
``Hey there, Stella, baby!'' as he tossed his woman a package of raw
meat.
And in the almost 50 years that have passed since his Stanley Kowalski
electrified the American theater, Marlon Brando's legend has expanded
until it has become an essential part of our shared cultural mythology.
If Marlon Brando did not exist, it seems, we would have had to invent
him.
Indeed, we have invented him anyway -- as the rebel with the broken
heart, the self-lacerating idealist, the Don Juan broken on a wheel of
flesh, the recluse brooding out a bloated endgame on a tropical island.
Whether these images have any basis in reality -- and for 40 years
Brando himself has snarled, when he could bring himself to speak at
all, that they do not -- hardly matters, for what Brando has come to
stand for is possibility itself.
The myth of Brando is the myth of the man who makes himself up as he
goes along -- who rises above fear to challenge Johnny Friendly, thumbs
his nose at everything that smacks of the hypocrisy of the ``real
world,'' sleeps with every woman, fights the demons in the last dark,
and dies with his eyes open.
Brando has bitterly rejected his own legend: To combat myth, he has
chosen silence. An intensely private man, he has granted only a handful
of interviews in the last 30 years. But -- in an irony that is no
longer unfamiliar in the age of spectacle -- his silence has only
heightened the aura that so nauseates him.
All of which explains the considerable excitement surrounding the
publication this week of Marlon Brando's long-awaited autobiography,
``Songs My Mother Taught Me'' (Random House, $25, 468 pages). The great
sphinx has finally spoken: What made him break his long silence? And
what would he say?
The answer to the first question is not entirely clear, although money
-- Random House paid Brando a reported $6 million for the world rights
-- may have been involved.
As for the second question, the answer is: Not enough. Or perhaps too
much.
Whatever his faults, and they are many, Marlon Brando was never bland.
But ``Songs My Mother Taught Me,'' co-authored by Robert Lindsey, while
certainly several notches above the standard show-biz tell-all, never
catches fire. We are given all the information to construct a life, but
not the sense of life itself. Those colored lights never really get
going.
In his introduction, Lindsey, the former West Coast bureau chief for
the New York Times who also, oddly, co-wrote Ronald Reagan's memoirs,
explains that Brando turned to him after finding that ``he didn't have
the emotional reserve to write a full-blown autobiography. ... (He)
promised to hide nothing, to be completely honest with me and to answer
any questions I asked him about any topic I wanted except his marriages
and his children.'' The book is based on tape-recorded conversations
between the two men, edited by Lindsey and given final revision by
Brando.
Part of the book's problem is its form, or lack of it. No matter how
well edited -- and Lindsey has done a good job of pulling together a
coherent narrative -- as-told-to books tend to have an episodic,
meandering feeling. Internal tension and organic unity, the qualities
that raise autobiography to a literary art, are lost. If the subject
has an unusually potent voice, this can be overcome: Miles Davis'
pungent autobiography is an example. But on paper Brando -- who in his
films thundered and whispered, clamored and soared -- lacks such a
voice. And his refusal to engage the most painful and personal areas of
his life -- his tormented relationship with his first wife, Anna
Kashfi, the tribulations of his children -- while certainly
understandable, further limits the book's emotional range.
Which is not to say that Brando avoids confronting profoundly personal
issues. The emotional thread that runs through ``Songs My Mother Taught
Me'' is confessional -- a painful acknowledgment of the troubled,
loveless family life that drove him into decades of obsession and rage.
Brando's mother was an alcoholic, his father a philanderer and drunk, a
``cold, unloving, selfish, infantile, terminally despicable and
self-absorbed'' man. Brando has included the heartbreaking letters he
sent as a lonely adolescent to his parents from military academy --
letters rarely answered.
Just as thousands of amateur psychologists had suspected, Brando's
public mask of scorn concealed a wounded inner child. ``If I had been
loved and cared for differently, I would have been a different
person,'' Brando says. ``I went through most of my life afraid of being
rejected and ended up rejecting those who offered me love because I was
unable to trust them.'' After years of analysis and self-examination,
Brando now says he has made peace with those who wounded him so deeply
-- and with himself. ``I ... finally realized that I had to forgive my
father or I would be entrapped by my hatred and anguish for the rest of
my life.''
(MORE)
