Albania under mounting pressure to hold new elections 
Albania came under increasing pressure to hold new legislative
elections Tuesday as the Council of Europe looked set to recommend
polling in May and June be annulled after widespread allegations of
fraud.
In an emergency session Wednesday, the council's parliamentary assembly
is to vote on a recommendation that new elections be held to restore
confidence in Albania's democracy.
Albania is a member of the 39-state council, a pan-European body which
promotes democracy and human rights.
The recommendation came Tuesday from the council's political affairs
committee which held talks with Albanian political parties.
The committee is also recommending a fact-finding mission be sent to
Albania.
The recommendation comes a day after the Organisation for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which monitored the elections, pressed
Albania to hold new polls.
President Sali Berisha's Democratic Party won 122 of the parliament's
140 seats in the poll held over two rounds on May 26 and June 2.
Further polling was held in 17 constituencies on June 16 after the
previous ballot was invalidated because of fraud.
"Free and fair elections are the cornerstone of pluralist democracy.
They constitute an essential condition for Council of Europe
membership," the committee said. "Free expression of the will of all
parts of the Albanian population must be guaranteed."
The committee also called on Albania's government not to take any major
legislative initiatives before the elections have been re-run.
However, last week Berisha ruled out new elections. "There will be no
new elections in Albania. On behalf of all those who freely voted in a
sovereign country. I am making this very clear," Berisha said.
And on Friday, Berisha's party rejected a call by the European
parliament for fresh polling, describing a motion to this effect passed
by the EU assembly here a day earlier as "aggressive."
In the Strasbourg resolution, deputies called on the European Union to
suspend cooperation with Albania and urged Tirana to annul the earlier
vote.
