Farm Mishap In Kentucky, while carrying a sack of feed out to the chicken
house, a young country bumpkin spotted a rooster downing a hen and spilled
his seed.
Yucca Mountain Incident
The Yucca Mountain Repository in Nevada where the U.S. Department of
Energy stores nuclear radioactive waste has somehow moved itself into
northern Arizona during the night.
Political Fast Food Advertising
The McDonalds Corporation is considering the addition of political ads
on their restaurant signs. One possibility is...Obama & Biden vs. "Big
Mac" & "McNuggets"
Boxer shorts or briefs for McCain?
When asked by a student the Presidential candidate, 101, replied:
"That's Depends."
Cindy McCain to fund Methadone clinic
Uh oh! Here we go again...
Boomer Rage!
A mob of Baby-Boomers has attacked the headquarters of the American
Broadcasting Company in New York demanding that they drop the song,
"Stairway To Heaven" from life insurance commercials.
McCain Gets Bump
John McCain, now up by 4% over Barack Obama, apparently got a bump
during his naming Sarah Palin his VP choice when excited "hockey moms"
knocked the Replican candidate to the floor.
New Mystery
Archeologists have a new mystery on their hands with the discovery this
morning of every single statue on Easter Island suddenly wearing Mardi
Gras beads.
Baseball's First Replay Review
Major League Baseball had it's first instant replay last week when it
showed that Yankee slugger Alex Rodriguiz hit was a home run. The
replay also showed a total of 9 players scratching their crotch.
Nader Energy Proposal
Independent Presidential Candidate Ralph Nader proposes tapping into
American strategic solar energy reserves.
Tony Blair changes religion, AGAIN
Tony Blair who recently became a Roman Catholic today released a
statement that he is now changing his religion to Snake Handlers. The
religion dances with rattle snakes and drinks cyanide.
Kwame Kilpatrick to be named U.S. Attorney General
Barack Obama and Joe Biden have announced today that Ex-Detroit Mayor,
Kwame Kilpatrick, also known as the "Hip-Hop" mayor has been picked to
be their Attorney General once he is released from prison.
Geeks Ordering Mail-Order Brides
Report: Geeks Ordering Brides From Chernobyl, Hoping For Super-Kids
U.S. reports that geeks & trekkies are ordering mail-order brides from
Chernobyl hoping their kids will have super-powers.
Possible Teddy Roosevelt Party Revival
Rumour Mill: Should the Obama/Biden win in November, a possible
Hillary/Palin ticket could resurrect the Bull-Moose Party in 2012.
MPs 'to call for cap on migrants'
"They need to wear something on their heads so we can spot them!" said
one MP, who coincidentally has shares in a Top Hat business.
Barack Obama receives his first intelligence report as the Democratic
presidential nominee
It has no pretty photos, rap lyrics or gangsta songs so Obama falls
asleep.
Murder Victim In Court Today
John Doe, accused of murdering himself, has appeared at Hull Crown
Court today. He remained silent throughout the hearing, his solicitor
entering a plea of Not Guilty on his behalf.
Nude Photos Of IN SEINE Circulating Internet
Nude pictures of a baby IN SEINE have been circulating the internet, it
has been claimed. Police are investigating, and say they will destroy
the offensive material once it is in custody.
Sarah Palin To Sign For Man City
Republican Sarah Palin is the transfer target for Man City's new Arab
owners, after they decided to acquire every current 'big name' their
money could buy.
American feminist's demand...
From now on women are not to be referred to as a 'chick', or 'babe' or
'hottie'....From now on please refer to her as a Breasted-American!
Thank you!
Author reveals the only three words that will clear out any men's room
anywhere...
"Hey! Nice dick!"
McCain Pit Crew Impressive
Although many were impressed at the Republican convention
with VP nominee, Sarah Palin, even more applauded John McCain's pit
crew, who changed his adult diapers in an average 4.6 seconds.
Floodline call centre is to close
The UK Floodline call centre is to close today because it has been
flooded itself - a] by worried callers b] it is currently under 4 feet
of water and manned by scuba divers.
UK drought forecast
A drought has been forecast throughout Great Britain for two hours
tomorrow. There will be a hosepipe ban in force between 06:00-08:00hrs
BST.
Obama talks about pot...
Barack Obama says he doesn't like marijuana and can't see why anyone
else wants to do it. He doesn't care for it because it drives him crazy
when it clogs up the needle!
Barking Mad Man Dies in Fall From Couch!
A Bristol woman reported her afflicted husband died while watching the
telly. "He was watching Benny Hill reruns when he got the urge to lick
his balls and took a bad tumble." Bestiality was cited.
OSHA Cites FEMA for Inadequate Trailer Egress Doors!
Claiming a national emergency, OSHA claims single wide trailer doors
are inadequate for the average American woman in the event of an
emergency. FEMA says it will comply by upgrading to doublewides.
At 3 A.M. No Democrats at Home to Answer Phone!
Message to Homeland Security from Dems:" Don't call us in the middle of
the night if there's a problem-we could be anywhere." Dem. Social
Director Kwame Kilpatrick said he's on TOP of the problem.
Windfall Tax
UK Power companies are refusing to release some of their 'windfall' tax
because they claim there has simply been not enough wind.
Obama Explores Monarchy Alternative for Colonies!
Claiming the US election process is unstable, Obama said he is
exploring the possibility of returning to a Monarchy. Recent DNA tests
of Obama link him to Prince Charles. "I'm all ears, " he said.
Myrtle Beach to Bikers: Go Poop on Someone Elses Beaches!
Myrtle Beach's infamous bike weeks which over 500,000 motorcyclists
attend, are in jeopardy. Town Council passed a law prohibiting public
defecation, and a helmet law. Message: GO SHIT IN YOUR HAT!
South Carolina Population Swells after Russian Invasion of Georgia!
SC officials said their border crossings have been inundated by
evacuees from Alabama and Florida. Gov. says he will remove missiles
from Pawleys Island to induce the Russians to leave peacefully.
NAACP Sues Media for Racial Comments!
The NAACP announced it would be suing several media outlets for the
term "Dark Horse" candidate in referring to Sarah Palin. The group
cited copyright infringement .
Hillary Prepares for 2008 Election Run With New Image!
Citing an 18 Million Vote Mandate, Hillary Clinton kicked off her 08
campaign with several announcements: joins NRA, divorces Bill, signs
off on drilling, shoots and dresses out squirrel in backyard.
Tony Blair's Bodyguard Forgets Gun After BM in Restroom!
A crack female British security agent was reassigned after forgetting
to reholster her Glock , leaving it on a restroom floor. The next
patron discovered the weapon and noted she hadn't flushed!
IRS Disavows Bill's Writeoff of Hillary's ASS!
The IRS announced that it was declaring Hillary Clinton's ass and ASSET
and not a LIABILITY as claimed by Bill on his 2007 tax returns. The IRS
cited Michelle Obama as the reason for its decision.
Graham Norton
It is said TV alone cannot drive someone to drugs. Well not in my
house. As soon as Norton comes on telly everyone in the house heads for
the needles and syringes. Mind you, we are a family of diabetics.
Ian Brady
I have never been able to understand all the fuss that is made over Ian
Brady. Anyone would think he is a monster. As far as I am concerned he
is the best midfielder Arsenal have ever had.
No More Honey
It's ridiculous that Honey is to be axed from Eastenders.
Now that I have found out Stacey smokes in real life, Billy's pretty
young wife is the only one left worth having a Jangle over.
Politics Causes Heart Attack
Singing duo Heart lashes out against the Republican Party for using
their hit song, "Barracuda," without permission.
A Chemical in Everyday Plastics Is Linked to Health Problems in Monkeys
Spoof writer Monkey Woods is furious. Issues press release stating,
"Those plastics should have been tried out on humans before monkeys
used them."
Several Executives of Troubled Mortgage Giant Fannie Mae Are Shown the
Door
On the way out, they get slapped on their fannies.
McCain: "Change is coming"
"Change IS coming". John McCain has admitted that he 'coined' the
phrase whilst waiting for cash from a vending machine. The politician
had just put a $5 bill in the machine for a bar of chocolate.
Lincoln Flasher
An un-named Lincoln man who suffers with impotence was cleared of
indecent exposure today. Although a full-frontal photograph was taken
of the man, he could not get the evidence to stand up in court.
High Flyers
I enjoyed the day very much, especially when I met up with the Red
Arrows after the air show. They were very much down to earth.
Anything to help...
Barack Obama complained that minorities were poorly represented on TV,
saying they deserve more airtime. To help Obama with his request, FOX
TV responded...Now America's Most Wanted runs twice a week!
Terrorist sex doll
Troops in Iraq have been alerted to a new terror weapon: 'Jihad Julie'
is a new inflatable doll which blows itself up.
North Vietnamese critize McCain`s fitness to be President
North Vietnamese say McCain owes them 5 years of back rent.
RNC withdraws McCain's nomination
John McCain was ruled to be to short to be President. Papa Smurfs jokes
feared
Republicans Eagerly Support Change From Usual Politics of Republicans
Convention crowds cheer McCain's promise to shake-up "old,
big-spending, do-nothing, me-first, country-second Washington crowd"
which same crowd sent to Washington in last two presidential elections
Alfalfa Sprouts Linked to Illness in Washington and Oregon
Alfalfa, of Little Rascals fame, denies involvement. Blames it all on
Spanky.
Writers' Production Rates Plummet on TheSpoof.com
Writers have no time to work on new stories, since they are transfixed
by watching Live Updates -- a new feature that lets them know, in real
time, when their published stories are being read.
Illegal crossing
A man drove across a state line with a dog sitting in a pan of soda
water. He told the Cop that his dog was under treatment. He said, "You
can't bring in a dog like that. This is a catatonic state."
Health & Safety Issue
A group of Welsh Coal Miners who wear illuminated helmets say it makes
them feel light-headed, it was reported today.
Ex Gambler reveals all
A patient in a psychiatric hospital told us how he ended up there. He
said: "I used to be a heavy gambler but now I just make mental bets.
That's how I lost my mind.
Stash found in Telford
A bottle of vinegar, two tins of mustard and a jar of mayonaisse were
found hidden in Marks & Spencer's, Telford Shopping Mall.
They were found in the Dressing Room, police said today.
McCain Confesses...
John McCain has more people living in condos he owns than Sarah Palin
had in her entire town when she was mayor.
Egypt and UK reach settlement
After years of demanding the return of the Rosetta Stone, Egypt have
agreed to take Sharon Stone instead. Ms Stone, was recently transferred
from Hollywood Museum to the British Museum for $20,000.
Supermarket Prices Set To Rise
Midgets are furious.
"We won't be able to see them" says one dwarf.
'Cremated' father turns up on TV
"We knew we had put that urn somewhere!" laughs son after ashes moved
for cleaning.
Chelsea flower show through to finals
The Chelsea flower show has made it to the European finals where they
will meet the Real Madrid flower show in a thrilling showdown.
Skydivers refuse to teach blind people to do skydiving as a hobby
It scares the hell out of the dogs!
The world's first invisible man marries world's first invisible woman
Believe me, the kids they had were nothing to look at!
Woman now understand
Through the ages women have wondered why it's so hard to find a caring,
sensitive, good-looking man. Finally, an answer to that age old
question! Those guys already have boyfriends!
The Airport Safety Administration
In response to flying fears, will be changing the term 'terminal' to
'airport' only.
Freedom Fries to be renamed 'McCain Fries'
After going from 'French Fries' to 'Freedom Fries', John McCain has
announced that' should he become President, the product will be known
as 'McCain Fries'. He denies any sponsorship links.
Irishman Attempts to Circumnavigate the Globe
An Irishman drowned whilst attempting to walk around the world!
Highlight from Sarah Palin's speech
Hey Hillary, ha ha, eat your heart out.
Excessive Masturbating linked to poor spelling
According to riports, excessive masturbation can lead to a degradation
of spelling skills and cause writers to make silly misteaks.
Latest Racist
Wendy Richards, famed misery of Eastenders has entered another race
row, when she was caught on TV channeling the spirit of Bernard
Manning.
Health and Wellbeing
Join us for a fun and lively yoga class followed by medication.
Beginners welcome.
Scottish Parliament: "Don't class us as monkies!"
The Scottish Government will not intervene over plans for a
controversial tree-top adventure course in Glasgow's Pollok Park. They
do not wish to appear to the public as being "Out of their tree!"
In Response to BuckwheatsButt
I suffer from Alzheimers and I would like to point out that another
good thing about having Alzheimers is that you get to meet new people
every day.
Most abundant elements
According to NASA research, the 2 most common elements in the universe
are hydrogen and stupidity it was announced today.
In shape for lunch?
Nutritionists have discovered that too many square meals each day can
make you well-rounded.
Where's Sarah Palin From?
Asked where his Republican running mate, Sarah Palin, hails from,
Senator John McCain told journalists:
"I don't know. I'll ask her."
The Route To Relief
Holidaymakers were making their way home by ferry from Cowes to
Southampton. As the ferry was leaving the island, it was announced by
the captain that they were leaving via the rear end of Cowes.
Rear Winds
A notice referring to the rear entrance/exit to a shop facing Blackpool
Promenade when it was very windy: "The bottom doors have been locked
due to strong winds."
Education Latest
Children starting secondary school in England this week are the first
legally required to stay in education until they are 17.
However, those who have dyslexia will have to stay until they are 71.
If there's one good thing about having Alzheimers,
it's that you get to meet new people every day!
Jolie warmed
Angelina Jolie warned to expect a right dressing down from the
Advertising Standards Agency after glamourising guns. She has been
given a white dressing gown instead.
Loose lion
Belfast - a lion on the loose has caused concern for local impala .
Northern Irish police are trying to establish a tamelion
