U.S.-Milosevic Talks End, Deadlock Over Sanctions Remains With Yugoslavia 
A U.S. negotiator has failed to persuade Serbian President Slobodan
Milosevic to recognize Bosnia's independence and plans to return to
Washington for more consultations, Western diplomats said Tuesday.
Robert Frasure, a U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state, ended a
week of talks with the powerful Serbian president on a plan to swap
recognition of Bosnia for lifting of economic sanctions on Yugoslavia.
Recognition of Bosnia would be a blow to rebel Serbs there and wreck
their dream of uniting all Serbs in one country. Milosevic armed and
financed the Bosnian Serbs before becoming a peacemaker in order to get
sanctions lifted.
Diplomats said the talks deadlocked over provisions for possible
reimposition of sanctions. Milosevic wants the U.N. Security Council to
have the final say, counting on his ally Russia's veto.
Milosevic has refused a U.S. proposal that an independent group of
experts decide, if needed, whether sanctions should be reintroduced.
Frasure was to leave for Washington Wednesday and brief the State
Department about the deadlock and possible next moves, the diplomats
said.
Milosevic apparently thinks that he has scored a big negotiating point
by pressuring the Bosnian Serbs to release U.N. hostages, proving he
can still influence them.
He is expected to stand firm on his proposal, which would virtually
ensure that sanctions are never reimposed.
Milosevic has also insisted on the right of Serb-dominated Yugoslavia _
Serbia and Montenegro _ to be the legal successor of the old Yugoslav
federation which disintegrated in war, sources familiar with the talks
said.
Yugoslavia could then claim all the assets of the old six-republic
federation.
The sources said Milosevic appeared to be willing to drop those demands
in exchange for the full lifting of a U.N. trade embargo imposed in
1992 for his support of rebel Serbs in Bosnia.
Economic sanctions have contributed to the collapse of the Yugoslav
economy. About half the workforce is unemployed and production has
plummeted. Many people live at or near the poverty line.
Sources say the package of incentives to Milosevic has been expanded to
include currency supports and credits.
Serbia's ability to bankroll Serb rebellions in Bosnia and Croatia has
been exhausted by the economic and political sanctions imposed in May
1992.
Talks with Frasure, opened April 29 and continued intermittently ever
since, were the most detailed between Milosevic and any outside
mediator since war erupted in Bosnia in 1992 after it seceded from
Yugoslavia.
