Hospital strike snowballs as doctors' leader arrested 
A strike at Zimbabwe's government hospitals -- which has already led to
avoidable deaths -- snowballed Tuesday after the arrest of a leading
doctor, the official Ziana news agency reported.
The agency said junior doctors and nurses who had returned to work last
week after being threatened with dismissal had decided to resume their
strike until the chairman of the Hospital Doctors' Association, Farayi
Jiah, was released.
Jiah, who has been accused by several government officials of
instigating the work stoppage, was arrested late Monday and held
overnight at a police station.
He said he had been told he would be charged under the Law and Order
(Maintenance) Act.
Apart from Jiah's release, the health sector negotiating committee --
which announced the new strike -- said hospital staff were also
demanding the reinstatement of all nurses fired last week and the
resolution of outstanding claims on pay and working conditions.
The committee called on other civil servants to join the strike.
"It is clear that the arrest of Dr Jiah is linked to the ongoing crisis
in the civil service and, in particular, the health sector," the
statement said.
"It is this heavy-handed approach of government that has created and
prolonged the crisis in the civil service."
Junior doctors and nurses went on strike on October 21 to press for
improved pay and working conditions, but the doctors and a few nurses
went back to work last week after being threatened with dismissal.
Some 2,000 nurses remained on strike and acting public service minister
Nathan Shamuyarira says they have been sacked.
Military medics have been called in to help run Harare's major
hospitals, but services are at a minumum, several wards have been
closed and doctors have reported deaths that could otherwise have been
avoided.
This is the second time the nurses have been on strike in two months.
They were joined in a two-week strike in September by most other civil
servants, bringing government business to a halt.
They went back to work when the government granted them all a 20
percent pay rise and agreed to negotiate on other demands.
The nurses went on strike again after the government delayed the
negotiations several times.
