Turkey, Jordan agree to fight terrorism 
Turkish Foreign Minister Tansu Ciller said here Tuesday that Amman and
Ankara have agreed to fight terrorism and defended Turkey's military
cooperation with Israel.
"Indeed we did reach an agreement as far as the fight against terrorism
is concerned," Ciller told a press conference at the end of a two-day
visit to the Jordanian capital.
"Both our countries decided to act together against terror, no matter
what kind of terror and where it originated from," said Ciller, who is
also Turkey's deputy prime minister.
"We are faced with the export of terrorism from our neighboring
countries. One region is northern Iraq which has become almost a
no-man's land," she said, referring to bases of Turkish Kurd separatist
PKK guerrillas.
"PKK terrorists have had the chance and the feasibility of simply
hiding" in Kurdish-held northern Iraq, she said.
The foreign minister also defended the military accords which Turkey
signed with Israel in February against criticism from some Arab
countries, notably neighbouring Syria.
"This agreement has been misunderstood by our friends basically because
it is a training agreement," she said, adding that Turkey had similar
accords with 16 countries, including Arab states.
"This is not an agreement against a third party. The case should be
understood very well."
On the Arab-Israel peace process, Ciller criticized Israel for the
opening in September of a Jerusalem tunnel near Islamic holy sites and
for its policy of expanding Jewish settlements in the Palestinian
territories.
But Jordan's opposition parties, including the Islamic Action Front,
criticized the Ciller visit which it charged was part of efforts to set
up a pro-Western bloc in the region like the Baghdad Pact in the 1950s.
The 10 parties, in a statement, referred to a call last week from
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind for a regional body to
resolve conflicts modelled on the Organisation for Security and
Cooperation in Europe.
The opposition urged the Jordanian government "to avoid taking part in
any political or security accord which does not serve the interests of
the Arab world."
Turning to trade, Ciller said that links with Jordan must be boosted.
"Trade with Jordan is less than 200 million dollars. This is not
acceptable and it is embarrassing to both our friendly countries, we
have to increase that," Ciller said.
