Asian Gifts Fair Attracts Record Number of Visitors 
Signs of an improving market situation were apparent as a record 46,000
visitors flocked to the largest giftware trade fair in Asia, Jeffrey
Lam, chairman of the Organizing Committee of the Hong Kong Gifts and
Houseware Fair' 99, said here Friday.
The number of visitors to the two-in-one event -- the Hong Kong Gifts
and Houseware Fair' 99 and the Hong Kong Premium Show '99, increased by
18.3 percent over last year, according to Germany- based independent
audit specialists, the Voluntary Control of Fair and Exhibition
Statistics (FKM).
Of all visitors, more than 25,000 came from areas outside Hong Kong.
Among them, traders from the United States topped the list ( up 31
percent on 1998), followed by visitors from Taiwan (up 11 percent),
China's mainland (up 71 percent), Japan (up 14 percent), Australia (up
22 percent), Germany (up 21 percent) and Britain (up 28 percent).
A significant increase in the number of visitors from Asia was
recorded, including Korea (up 93 percent), Malaysia (up 42 percent) ,
the Philippines (up 19 percent) and Singapore (up 12 percent).
Other growth countries/regions were France (up 10 percent), Italy (up
22 percent), the Netherlands (up 25 percent), Spain (up 16 percent),
Israel (up 41 percent) and Saudi Arabia (up 26 percent).
The growth in both numbers of attendance and exhibitors were
indications that the market situation was improving, said Lam.
This year 40 percent more exhibitors, totaling 3,376 companies, came to
Hong Kong to showcase their giftware despite the economic slowdown. The
fair is the largest in Asia and ranks third in the world.
Peter Joseph, leader of the Sydney Olympics buying group, said during
the fair that his buying mission was finding more products and good
ideas to help meet the soaring demand for Olympics branded products.
"We have found plenty and we know that this is the place to buy in
Asia," he said.
Johnny Thai, manager of International Manufacturing Licensee
Incorporated from the Philippines, said it has always been a highly
satisfactory experience to come to the fair every year to look for
business partners to manufacture licensed gift items.
It is also where he can keep track of the trends in the Hong Kong and
U.S. markets, he added.
