Ferrigno Prepares For Return To Competitive Weight Lifting
Here he is now, at age 42, weighing about 300 pounds, with less body
fat than a quart of skim milk, going through a routine at World Gym in
Venice, Calif., that makes you feel guilty for all the times in your
life you've taken the elevator instead of the stairs.
In the interim, Lou Ferrigno has competed for and won some of the most
prestigious titles in the cultish world of bodybuilding; endured and
then recovered from an abusive father who couldn't stand to see his
``slow'' son succeed; starred for five seasons as TV's ``The Incredible
Hulk''; married and is helping to raise three children; appeared and
lectured all over the globe; worked as a personal trainer for
celebrities, including Mickey Rourke and Chuck Norris, and has written
an autobiography that is due out in two weeks.
Now he's back. Pumping iron. Working out. Competing. Going back to the
drawing board, with a single-minded focus as if all of the above never
happened.
Ferrigno has come out of bodybuilding ``retirement'' to train for and
compete in the inaugural Masters Olympia contest, which takes place
Sept. 9 in Atlanta.
``My goal is to be in the best shape of my life,'' said the former Mr.
Olympia Wednesday after a workout at the Venice gym.
This is saying something. Since the days back in Brooklyn, when he
first picked up some of his father's barbells and muscle magazines that
were always strewn around the house, Lou Ferrigno has never exactly let
himself go.
He not only achieved personal satisfaction by transforming himself from
scrawny to brawny and earning worldwide fame in the process, he and
Arnold Schwarzenegger became perhaps the two most influential
ambassadors of the expand-and-contract set.
And although Schwarzenegger is surely the starrier name because of his
exploits on celluloid, Ferrigno is revered more by serious weight men.
``He's a bodybuilder's bodybuilder,'' noted Don ``Ripper'' Ross, a
former Mr. America and professional wrestler who also works out at
World Gym. ``A lot of fans are excited about the Masters competition
because Lou will be in it, along with other heroes of the past.''
Ira Bankofsky is one of Ferrigno's closest and dearest friends. The two
began working out together 25 years ago at R&AMP;J Health Studio in
Brooklyn. He has been at Ferrigno's side for some of his greatest
triumphs, including his Mr. America title in 1973 and Mr. Universe wins
in '73 and '74.
After a long separation -- partly due to the disruptive ways of
Ferrigno's father Matt -- Bankofsky is back, working daily with
Ferrigno in preparation for the Masters event.
Said Ferrigno: ``He's the only one who can push my buttons.''
``I guarantee you that he will be by far the most popular person on
that stage,'' Bankofsky said.
It wasn't always so.
Ferrigno grew up with a severe hearing deficiency as well as a speech
impediment. Aside from the cruel taunts he had to endure from
outsiders, his father would compound the problem inside their own
abode.
Whatever Lou did wasn't good enough. Whatever he tried to do was
stupid. Whatever he wanted to do was a foolish dream.
``He was very abusive, both physically and mentally,'' Ferrigno said.
``I carried his anger and pain around all my life. I was resentful. He
always told me I wouldn't amount to anything.''
Even in Ferrigno's finest moments, his father wouldn't relent.
Bankofsky helped train Ferrigno prior to the making of the bodybuilding
classic, ``Pumping Iron.''
``As soon as he found out about the movie,'' Bankofsky said of
Ferrigno's father, ``he said, `Don't talk to Ira anymore. I'm gonna
train you.'''
The film depicted Ferrigno and his father as a team. True, but it was a
team with no camaraderie, no positive energy, no chemistry, no love. It
was a team that disintegrated soon after it was assembled.
``When I won, he would come around,'' Ferrigno said. ``When I was down,
he didn't give a (expletive).''
Ferrigno said he hasn't spoken to his father -- or to his brother and
sister -- in six years.
It took many more years of therapy for Ferrigno to understand his
torment and to let the pain go. With the help of his wife of 15 years,
Carla, his kids, his friends and his following, Ferrigno now is in his
most positive mental state in years.
Each day for the past 12 months, he has been following a rigorous
program that involves a two-hour workout with weights in the morning at
World Gym, then an hour of posing at his home in Santa Monica, followed
by a cardiovascular workout in the evening.
To attain such attributes as 23-inch arms and a 60-inch chest, he has
given up alcohol and sugar and no morsel of food gets past his gums
without great scrutiny. He is making sacrifices now as he made when he
first discovered his love for lifting weights and building muscles.
``People over 40 are more interested in staying healthy than young
people,'' he said. ``It would be such a wonderful feeling to say that
age 42 I am the best bodybuilder in the world. I think it would give
people the hope that they could do the same thing.''
There is an expression: ``No pain, no gain.'' Lou Ferrigno would
probably be the first to tell you how true it is.
Michael Ventre's column appears in the Daily News four days a week.
