German joy in two-man bob
German veteran Christoph Langen capped a stellar career by snapping up
his first Olympic two-man bobsleigh gold medal Sunday on his fourth
attempt.
Coming into the Salt Lake City Games, Langen, 39, had 25 Olympic, World
and European championship medals to his name but had never won Olympic
gold in the two-man bob. Four years ago in Nagano he only managed
bronze.
This time, in what is likely to be his last Winter Olympics, he made no
mistake, snatching gold from under the nose of Switzerland's Christian
Reich and Martin Annen with the help of his brakeman Markus Zimmermann.
"That's the only gold medal I've missed in my career -- the two-man at
the Olympics," said Langen, who deliberately shunned the favourite tag
in the run up to the two-day competition.
"It was a superb performance. We fought like tigers out there," he
added
Zimmermann, who partnered Langen to victory in the four-man at Nagano,
was a late replacement for Marco Jakobs, sidelined with a thigh injury.
"I did not have a problem with Markus coming in but maybe he did
because he prepared for the four-man and lost weight and then he had to
put it on again," said Langen. "We used to be a good team and I think
only Markus could have come in like that. He's a real fighter."
Zimmermann, 37, said he was thrilled but relieved at the same time:
"Our dream has finally come true. I am really happy because after all
we are fairly old guys."
The pair went into the fourth and final round tied for pole position
with Reich, but put in an electric run down the lightning quick Utah
Olympic Park track to finish .09 seconds ahead with an aggregate time
of 3mins 10.11 secs.
Annen, who topped this season's World Cup standings in the two-man,
came in .51secs off the pace to take the bronze in his Olympic debut.
Crowd favourite Todd Hays, who was heavily tipped to end the United
States' 46-year Olympic bobsleigh medal drought, finished just outside
the medals, three hundreths of a second further back.
Langen, who finished one-hundredth of a second behind leader Reich
after Saturday's two heats, had vowed it would be a battle to the end.
And he was as good as his word.
The former decathlete put in a scintillating drive in the third run
with a time of 47.44secs, breaking Reich's track record which he had
set moments earlier.
From there on in he was able to call on his experience and superbly
honed driving skills to take him and his partner to the gold medal.
"Before the fourth run I was very calm, that was a surprise for me. I
guess that calm comes with my age," said Langen, who already has eight
World Cup titles under his belt.
Being the sportsman he is, Langen said he wished Reich could also have
shared the gold. "In my deepest thoughts I wished we could have
finished tied," he said.
The 34-year-old Reich at least had the consolation of winning his first
Olympic medal in what was also his fourth Games.
"I did not lose the gold medal. I won the silver medal. I am deeply
touched. (My brakeman) Steve Anderhub was my psychonada and Italy's
Gunther Huber finished fifth and eighth respectively.
In the battle for the Caribbean honours, Jamaica finished in 28th
place, ahead of the Virgin Islands and Trinidad and Tobago.
Langen has a chance to add another gold to his medal collection when he
defends his four-man title starting Friday.
