The US local phone market -- first big test for BT-MCI merger by Vincent Baby 
Penetrating the huge -- and recently de-regulated -- US local telephone
market should prove to be the first key test facing the merger of
British Telecom and MCI Communications.
The opening of the local market represents "an unparalleled bonanza,"
said Bert Roberts, MCI chairman and co-president designate of the
proposed new company, to be known as Concert.
He noted that the 100 billion dollar local market is not only a third
larger in size than the long distance sector, where MCI is in second
place behind AT and T, but is twice as profitable.
For financial reasons, MCI has so far been able to make few inroads
into the local market. But with the merger, the US firm should have
access to the benefits of BT's annual cash flow of almost nine billion
dollars.
British Telecom currently has a 20 percent stake in MCI.
While waiting for approval of the deal from US and British regulators,
a process that could take a year, MCI is expected to stick with a
strategy that calls for the investment of some two billion dollars in
local telephone networks.
By the end of January, MCI should be able to offer service in 25 cities
in the United States, either directly or by renting capacity from
existing local providers, according to Roberts.
He said the initiative would give MCI access to 53 percent of US
businesses.
The company is banking on name recognition and its marketing services
to ease its entry onto the local scene.
But some analysts doubt MCI's ability to compete locally with its
principal long-distance rivals, AT and T and Spring, as well as some of
the regional companies, known as Baby Bells.
"I still think there are huge holes in MCI's fabric in the United
States," said Michael Elling of Prudential Securities. "They lack
wireless."
Until the start of this year, local telephone exchanges were securely
in the hands of seven Baby Bells, regional companies that emerged after
the breakup of AT and T in 1984.
But with last February's landmark telecommunications reform
legislation, the local market was opened to competition -- notably from
long-distance operators.
At the same time, local companies were authorized to provide long
distance service.
