Russian soldiers' mothers want end to brutal conscription
Russia at long last is to introduce alternative civil service and allow
young men to avoid the brutal army draft but a campaigning group of
soldiers' mothers will not rest until conscription ends altogether.
"The military reform is irreversible. Today's army, depraved,
demoralized and corrupted as it is, cannot continue to exist," Natalya
Zhukova, a Soldiers' Mothers activist from Russia's western city of
Nizhny Novgorod, told AFP.
She was attending the group's congress in Moscow last weekend which
sparked harsh words between the women of this internationally-respected
organisation and some high-ranking Russian military brass who attended.
The assembly went up in arms when lawmaker General Mikhail Kolomoitsev
told them that it was wholly irrealistic to expect that Russia's meagre
budget could come up with the sum needed to transform the army into a
fully-volunteer force.
President Vladimir Putin has vowed to end conscription and make the
army fully professional in the long-term, a reform opposed by
conservative army generals.
According to estimates, the transition to a professional army would
cost approximately 100 billion rubles (3.3 billion dollars or 3.8
billion euros under the current exchange rate) between 2006 and 2010.
Cries of "Scoundrels!" and "Stop the drafts!" erupted among the hundred
or so activists from Soldiers' Mothers, which has succeeded after more
than 13 years of struggle to get the government to draft a law offering
alternative service.
"Russia would have enough money to set up a professional army if only
the military stole less," one woman retorted.
Ignoring the protests, the general urged the lobby group to help
reinforce "military-patriotic ideology so that young conscripts would
want to serve in the army."
Since its creation in 1989, the group has waged a passionate fight
against brutality in the army and struggled to help those young
soldiers who either desert or become suicidal as a result of daily
violence, illness and hunger.
Up to 40,000 conscripts become conscientious objectors or deserters
every year, according to the organisation, out of a total of 1.2
million troops in the Russian armed forces.
A quarter of all complaints received by the group cited sickness, lack
of medical treatment or malnutrition.
Official army figures say that 1,800 Russian troops die out of combat
each year, but t*cjroup's experts estimate that the real figure is
between 2,500 and 4,000, with nearly 500 soldiers committing suicide
each year.
The number of those refusing the draft has increased drastically since
the outbreak in 1999 of renewed hostilities in Chechnya involving the
Russian armed forces against separatists in the breakaway southern
Russian republic.
"The army has not solved any problems in Chechnya. Our sons are killed,
and so are Chechen civilians, and the situation does not improve" in
the war-torn territory, one of the group's organisers, Ida Kuklina,
said.
"We don't need such an army," she added.
However, the Soldiers' Mothers has run up against a powerful military
lobby.
"The president promised me since his inauguration in May 2000 that he
would try to stop the war in Chechnya. But he can do nothing, because
the military will always have the last word," its chairwoman, Valentina
Melnikova, said.
In a major step forward, the government in February presented the lower
house of parliament with a draft law that would allow draft-age youth
to opt for community service.
But the project specified that anyone who wished to choose alternative
service would have to serve four years instead of two years under the
regular army draft, a provision attacked as "discriminatory" by the
Soldiers' Mothers.
