Newly respectable Algeria to seek crackdown on terrorism at EuroMed meet
Algeria, newly respectable after the consecration of President Lamine
Zeroual by the country's electorate, will urge stronger measures
against "terrorism" at next week's Barcelona conference of European and
Mediterranean states.
Represented at the meeting of 27 countries by Foreign Minister Mohamed
Salah Dembri, Algeria has coordinated the positions of the Arab
countries involved towards the various issues to be debated.
An authoritative source said Dembri would appeal for enhanced
international cooperation against armed Islamic groups such as those
that have fought the military-backed government here for four years in
a war costing at least 30,000 lives.
Algeria sees itself as holding the front line against extremism, which
it accuses Iran and Sudan of sponsoring, and considers that the
conference's aim of making the Mediterranean a zone of peace and
prosperity depends on its stability.
It claims to have scored significant successes, particularly in staging
the November 16 presidential elections without any reported attempt at
disruption by armed groups, and with a high turnout.
International observers gave the poll, the first contested presidential
election in Algeria since independence from France in 1962, their seal
of approval, and incidents since the voting have been few.
The Algerian coordinator for the Barcelona conference, Amine Kherbi,
said in an interview with the government daily Essalem that the
election will give "a new thrust to negotiations between Algeria and
the European countries in the years to come."
Other issues that interest Algeria and other Arab interests represented
-- Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Mauritania, the Palestinian
Authority, Syria and Tunisia, plus the Arab League and the Maghreb Arab
Union -- include the welfare of their 10 million immigrants in European
countries and debt management.
The privately-owned daily Al-Khabar also said that Algiers was
concerned that the conference endorse the principle of "equality
between partners" and was critical of some aspects of the plans of the
European Union for the region.
Algeria backs the idea of a free trade area, proposed for 2010, but
will seek increased North-South aid ahead of its introduction.
On the political front, Algeria has promised it will continue to the
last minute to try to persuade the EU to lift its ban on the attendance
of Libya, which is an international outcast because of its alleged
involvement in the bombing of two airliners in 1988 and 1989.
