Boaters Relish Speed, Drink And Few Rules On `Last Frontier' Lake
There are not a lot of rules here on the Lake of the Ozarks. A man --
and most of those at the helm are men -- can drive a boat as fast as he
wants. He can drive it all night. There is no curfew. He can drink and
drive, too. And if the beer runs out, there are plenty of lakefront
bars.
A boat can be as big, with as much horsepower, as the owner can afford.
The Lake of the Ozarks is not like some other lakes, Lake St. Louis,
say, where regulations restrict boat length to 20 feet, and horsepower
to 175.
``It's the last frontier,'' said Cpl. Joe Hughes, one of the 12
Missouri Water Patrol officers who work the 98-mile lake in two shifts,
six on days, six on nights. ``Everybody comes to the lake to have a
good time.''
Even on the last frontier, though, there are limits. A boat cannot run
louder than 85 decibels, and the captain cannot be drunk. And,
officially at least, there is no nudity.
But in Party Cove, as it is called, on the western end of the lake,
women go topless and men bottomless. The lake is in Central Missouri.
Party Cove is more like Fort Lauderdale at spring break. Plenty of
families go to the Lake of the Ozarks, only not to Party Cove.
John Treppler, 42, is a family man. Treppler, who puts in 16-hour days
at his St. Louis auto body repair business, keeps a 25-foot cuddy cabin
at the lake. By Wednesday, he is already daydreaming about being there.
``It's freedom,'' Treppler said. ``One of the last freedoms.''
Everything is restricted these days, he said. Even movie theater
popcorn. ``You can't have it popped in coconut oil anymore,'' he said.
``They say it's bad for your health.''
Saturday morning, having made their ritual 180-mile drive from St.
Louis the night before, the Treppler's -- John, his wife, Jane,
Christopher, 12, and Stephie, 9 -- were on the water.
But this scene was not just the Trepplers, their boat (named The Boat)
and water. The Lake of the Ozarks is relatively clean, and ringed by
trees and full of bass, but wilderness it is not. There are houses,
restaurants and Minit Marts along the shore.
And, on Saturday there were thousands of boats. Boats from Iowa,
Kansas, Illinois, Indiana, Nebraska, Texas and, of course, Missouri.
Jet Skis, Wave Runners, Sea-Doos, and Tiger Sharks -- personal water
craft, as they are known in the trade.
There were small runabouts, 20-foot bowriders, and 25-foot cuddy cabins
like the Trepplers'. Fishing boats, 100-foot excursion boats, pontoon
boats, and houseboats that might get up to 4 miles an hour.
There were water-skiiers and, up in the sky, parasailers. There were
not many sailboats. This is powerboat country.
Men, young and not-so-young, were racing performance boats, or
long-nosed, go-fast boats, as they're called. The name says it all.
``It's a guy's toy,'' said Randy Kelly, a marina owner here who sells a
lot of long-nosed, cigarette boats. ``There are lots of big, old,
studly men that have their big, old, go-fast boat.''
It's like sports cars, or pickup trucks, or low riders. Whose runs
faster? Whose is bigger? Whose rides lower? On the lake, the question
is: Whose boat is bigger?
One of Kelly's friends, Kent Burke, 33, a liquor salesman from Sedalia,
Miss., was cruising along in the ``That's It,'' his 28-foot Regal.
``It's a really, really fabulous boat,'' he said -- but not fabulous
enough, apparently.
Last week, Burke said, his nephew's best friend, Joe, who is 31, met a
young woman. ``They were in my boat,'' Burke said. ``They tied up,
spent the day together. Everything was great.'' But that night, when
they took the boat to a bar on the lake, ``Somebody came along with a
bigger boat, and she went with him.''
Burke shrugged. ``Bigger boat, bigger dollars.'' Joe, he said,
``learned his lesson in the Lake of the Ozarks.''
Kelly, 46, fit, tanned and wearing orange bathing trunks, was at the
wheel of his 40-foot, express cruiser with twin 330 horsepower motors.
It was hot, but the boat was cool. It has air-conditioning.
It also has a CD player with 10 speakers, refrigerator, ice maker,
stove, microwave, hot and cold running water, toilet and shower, and,
in the cockpit, Berber carpet.
Kelly, who left the family business, Kelly's Bar, in Kansas City 17
years ago to open a marina here, was taking a rare Saturday off. With
his wife, Jane, and several friends on board, he decided to check out
the boats in Party Cove.
There were a lot of boats -- 300 or 400 -- many of them rafted together
in rows. ``Look at this mass of humanity, all in their toys,'' Kelly
said.
Party Cove, like the rest of the lake, was as friendly as any
Midwestern small town. Just ask Dennis Clarey, a farmer from El Paso,
Ill., who was there with his two grown sons and their farmer friends.
Everyone waved. There were a lot of women in thong bathing suits, and
they did not all have perfect bodies, or even close.
All boats were welcome. Frank Gaal, a customer service agent at a St.
Louis furniture company, was paddling serenely in his no-horsepower,
red plastic kayak, a beer between his legs.
Bruce Springsteen and Bob Marley boomed from huge speakers mounted on
the deck of a houseboat rented by Rob Gerson, a 31-year-old
construction company owner, and his nine male friends from Chicago's
south side. By 4 p.m., their second annual party weekend was a smash.
Women in bikinis had abandoned their boats to dance on the houseboat.
Anyone who wanted could climb aboard. There was plenty of beer.
``The Grateful Dead is playing in Chicago this weekend,'' Gerson said.
``We blew off the Grateful Dead for the Lake of the Ozarks.''
