Defiant Serbian opposition vows 'network of free cities'
The Serbian opposition, riding on nearly two weeks of protests at the
Belgrade government's cancellation of municipal election results, said
Sunday it would consolidate its influence in seven key towns.
"We're going to organize the towns we have won into a network of free
towns," said a top opposition leader, Zoran Djindjic, who heads the
Democratic Party.
Djindjic stressed that the opposition coalition, Together, was not
setting up a parallel government, but was instead consolidating its
influence in the towns where the authorities have acknowledged defeat.
After annulling the results of the November 17 vote, the former
communist government organized a rerun, in which the opposition
maintained its hold on seven of Serbia's 18 large towns despite
boycotting the vote. It had won 15 in the two earlier rounds.
"We will set up local authorities in the seven big towns that we won,"
Djindjic told a press conference Saturday following a massive
anti-government rally attended by 100,000 people.
The opposition has undisputed hold over Uzice, Cacak, Kragujevac,
Arilje, Jagodina, Krajevo and Novi Sad.
Vuk Draskovic, the other main opposition leader who heads the Serb
Renewal Movement, said Sunday: "We want to transform the interior of
Serbia. It's time for new politicians to bring in changes and reforms."
The opposition also plans to set up an "information network" to keep
people informed of the protest movement.
The media battle has become crucial for the opposition, which has had
its voice heard only in the capital in the face of an official news
blackout.
Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic has not appeared in public and has
stopped the mainly state-controlled media from reporting on the
protests.
Official radio and television are the only source of information for
much of Serbia's population of 10 million, and have been instructed to
gloss over the demonstrations in Belgrade and other cities.
Many people living outside Belgrade or even on the outskirts of the
city, questioned by AFP by telephone, were surprised to be informed of
the daily demonstrations.
Together apparently want to create an independent local press in the
countryside, and to keep the momentum going, the opposition plans
demonstrations starting Monday in all the towns it controls in support
of the last two weeks of rallies in Belgrade.
Meanwhile more than 5,000 students took to the streets Sunday in cold,
rainy weather in a new protest against Milosevic.
They shouted "thieves" outside the electoral commission in a reference
to the cancellation of the local election results, and outside the
government-run Borba daily they whistled their disapproval of the press
black-out.
The last three days have seen crowds of 100,000 anti-Milosevic
protesters in the streets in freezing weather -- the biggest challenge
to his authority since student protests in 1992.
In addition to calling for the resignation of Milosevic, the
communist-era leader of Serbia and one of the key strongmen in the
region, the opposition has also begun presenting itself as a force
capable of running the country.
For the first time Saturday it unveiled a government plan aimed mainly
at fighting corruption.
The Together coalition said it would bring a state of law to Serbia to
guarantee respect for elections, the return of "parliamentary law," the
"formation of a government excluding profiteering ministers" and an
independent judiciary.
The opposition has also called for an inquiry into corruption in the
government.
