Juventus ready for glory dash
European champions Juventus, with a seven points lead over Inter Milan,
appeared to have one hand firmly on the Italian league title Sunday, after
rivals Sampdoria crashed to a 1-2 home defeat against Bologna.
Russian striker Igor Kolyvanov scored twice in the second-half for
Bologna who surged back after going behind to a 23rd minute effort from
Vincenzo Montella.
Juventus had beaten Italian Cup finalists Vicenza 2-0 24 hours earlier
and with 44 points from 22 games, they now lead Roy Hodgson's Inter
Milan and a rejuvenated Parma, who are both on 37 points.
Sampdoria's loss saw them slip from second to fourth place on 36
points.
England's Paul Ince scored twice as Inter beat Piacenza 3-0 on Saturday
night, while Parma's fine run continued on Sunday with a 3-2 win over
relegation strugglers Cagliari.
French defender Lilian Thuram notched his first goal in Italy since
arriving this season from Monaco, while 21-year-old Argentine striker
Hernan Crespo added the other two.
Crespo, who has struggled all season after a sparkling appearance in
the Olympic soccer tournament at the Atlanta Games, knocked in the
second from close range and added the third with a superb overhead
kick. Sandro Tovalieri scored twice towards the end for Cagliari, while
Enrico Chiesa missed a late penalty for Parma.
AC Milan drew 1-1 with AS Roma at San Siro, with evergreen Pietro
Vierchowod, who turns 38 next month, opening the scoring in the 65th
minute -- stooping to head home Roberto Baggio's free-kick.
In Spain, former England manager Bobby Robson came under increasing
pressure from frustrated fans to resign when his Barcelona side crashed
to a shock 4-0 defeat at Tenerife.
Although Barcelona are second in the league, Robson has already been
disowned by many of the club's faithful who never accepted the sacking
of former supremo Johan Cruijff.
On Saturday Slavisa Jokanovic was the main Tenerife dangerman --
scoring a second-half hat-trick with two of his goals coming from the
penalty spot. Felipe scored Tenerife's other goal after just six
minutes.
Barcelona's latest defeat means that their bitter rivals Real Madrid
will increase their lead at the top of the table to nine points if they
win their away match at Espanyol on Monday.
Barcelona have 53 points from 27 matches while Real Madrid, with a game
in hand, have 59.
In other matches, Atletico Madrid snatched a home victory in a
five-goal thriller over Sevilla, while Deportivo came away 2-1 winners
from Rayo Vallecano.
Valencia were beaten 2-1 at Logrones while Real Sociedad and Athletic
Bilbao played out a 0-0 draw.
First division giants Paris St Germain and Strasbourg crashed out of
the French Cup on Saturday when they were beaten by the 'part-timers'
of Clermont Ferrand and Creteil.
