Broadening its assault against rival Fox, NBC is challenging the
ownership of stations that make up the core of the Fox TV network.
An NBC official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the network
will file a petition Wednesday to the Federal Communications
Commission, which regulates radio and TV broadcasters.
The petition will ask the FCC to set standards for all companies to
receive waivers from federal foreign ownership restrictions, if the
agency decides to give Fox a waiver from those restrictions, the
official said.
``We don't want the FCC to carve another multibillion exception to
Fox,'' the official said, referring to some regulatory breaks the
fledging network has gotten from federal regulators over the years.
NBC's latest assault on Fox was first reported in the New York Times on
Wednesday.
The petition builds on a complaint filed earlier this year by the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, a leading
civil rights group, which asserted that Fox has violated federal
foreign ownership restrictions.
The NAACP claimed that Fox masked its true corporate structure and that
foreign ownership denied opportunities to U.S. minorities. The FCC has
said since May that a ruling is imminent.
At issue is the ownership of six U.S. TV stations Fox bought in 1985 as
the foundation of its modern-day TV network.
Federal law and regulations bar a foreign company or individual from
owning more than 25 percent of a broadcast station.
According to Fox disclosures to the FCC this summer, all but 1 percent
of the dlrs 600 million used to purchase the stations was put up by
News Corp., a corporation based in Australia.
News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch, who became a U.S. citizen to buy
the stations, owns stock representing 76 percent of the voting rights
of Fox Television. The remaining 24 percent is held by News Corp.
Murdoch is a native Australian.
Fox made those disclosures in response to the NAACP petition.
Fox's president for network distribution and its chief Washington
lobbyist, Preston Padden, has said previously the stations' ownership
complies with federal restrictions.
The key question facing the FCC is who owns the stations -- Murdoch or
News Corp.
The stations, which were purchased from Metromedia Inc., are in
Washington, D.C., New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Dallas and Houston.
NBC wants the FCC to rule that Fox either must sharply reduce its
foreign ownership level or let other U.S. networks seek unlimited
foreign ownership.
The FCC filing comes as the three major networks -- ABC, CBS and NBC --
face heated competition from the cable television industry as well as
from Fox.
Fox began broadcasting in 1986 and has grown with such hits as the
animated comedy series ``The Simpsons'' and the teen drama ``Beverly
Hills 90210.'' This season, Fox began broadcasting National Football
League games, a CBS staple for decades. It also has been aggressively
gaining local affiliates at the expense of its broadcast rivals.
According to the Times' report, a senior NBC executive speaking on
condition of anonymity said NBC would prefer it ``if the commission
took a pound of flesh from Murdoch: hit him with a heavy fine, and
maybe take some of his licenses.''
The planned petition is not NBC's first assault on Fox.
Two months ago, NBC attempted to block Fox from taking away an
affiliate in Wisconsin, a move that cast doubt on three other TV
station purchases Fox intends to make.
