APEC Trade Ministers to Further Liberalize Trade 
The trade ministers of Asia and Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)
ended their meeting here today, after reviewing progress in APEC work
programs and identifying new initiatives for liberalization and
facilitation of trade and investment.
"The major significance of this meeting is the broad support...to
develop sectoral liberalization initiatives in APEC," said chair Art
Eggleton, Canada's Minister of International Trade.
"This meeting has created the momentum to move forward recommendations
on specific sectors to leaders in November," he told a news conference
with other APEC trade ministers.
The two-day meeting is the first in a series of ministerial meetings
that Canada will chair to advance preparations for the APEC Leaders'
Meeting in November.
A number of sectors that might be candidates for early voluntary
liberalization have been discussed, according to the statement of the
chair.
"Ministers agreed to direct officials to examine the merits of pursuing
comprehensive liberalization in such sectors having regard to defining
scope and coverage, including those that support enhanced
infrastructure and sustainable development," the statement said.
These officials will complete their study by the end of August and
report to the ministers in time so as to let them make recommendations
on specific liberalization initiatives to the leaders in Vancouver in
November.
On Individual Action Plans (IAP), the ministers agreed that IAP are key
to the implementation of APEC's trade agenda. They will provide reports
by August 15 on actions taken to implement commitments for 1997.
They "agreed to commit to the importance of taking IAP forward
progressively and continuously, with effective means to assess and
review them over time," the statement said.
The ministers reviewed key APEC activities designed to facilitate trade
and lower the costs of doing business, and emphasized the importance of
intensifying efforts in simplifying customs procedures and enhancing
investment environment.
On engaging business and the broader community, the ministers
reaffirmed "the central role of the business sector" and determined to
encourage greater business sector participation in liberalization and
facilitation of trade and in economic and technical cooperation.
The ministers also exchanged views with World Trade Organization (WTO)
director general Renatto Ruggiero on how APEC can best support the
multilateral trading system.
"Ministers affirmed their strong support for a rules-based
international trading system of universal membership, and confirmed
their support for the early accession of applicants in accordance with
WTO rules, based on effective market access commitments," the statement
said.
APEC ministers responsible for trade have met jointly with foreign
affairs ministers once annually since November 1989. In addition, they
have begun meeting semi-annually to sustain the momentum toward APEC's
goal.
Formed in 1989, the APEC forum is a group of Pacific Rim economies
working together to promote open trade, investment and economic and
technical cooperation.
It comprises 18 member economies, including Australia, Brunei
Darussalam, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, the
Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the
Philippines, Singapore, Chinese Taipei, Thailand and the United States.
