DUBLIN: European finance ministers agree on a budgetary stability pact for
single currency participants, Spanish officials, say in a major boost for
European unity. EU-summit,3rdlead 600 words around 1730 GMT. Picture,
Graphic by Angus Mackinnon DUBLIN: Navigating "uncharted waters," the
European Monetary Institute introduces the euro, seven new bank notes
destined to become Europe's long-awaited single currency. EU-summit-money,
changing dateline, 600 words around 1700 GMT by Allen Nacheman DUBLIN: EU
leaders discuss plans to step up cooperation in the fight against organised
crime and drug trafficking.  EU-summit-crime 500 words around 1900 GMT by
Allen Nacheman BELGRADE: Faced by a massive month-long campaign of
protests, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic invites Western help to
solve the crisis, as opposition leaders signal readiness to find a
solution.  Yugo-protests,3rdlead 700 words around 1630 GMT. Picture by
Alexandra Niksic RUSUMO, Rwanda: Tanzania's security forces strive to turn
back hundreds of thousands of Hutu refugees fleeing from camps on the
border with Rwanda and have them go home in spite of their fears about
repatriation. Tanzania-Zaire-refugees 700 words around 1730 GMT, new series
(Picture, Graphic by Christophe Parayre BAGHDAD: Iraqi President Saddam
Hussein's security forces hunt for the gunmen who shot and wounded his
eldest son Uday, who was reported to be recovering in a Baghdad
hospital. Iraq-Uday,2ndlead 700 words around 1700 GMT by Farouk Choukri
WASHINGTON: President Bill Clinton is set to announce his next series of
appointments amid reports that a globe-trotting, trouble-shooting
congressman will be the next UN ambassador and a Democratic political
activist will take over the Commerce Department.  US-cabinet 450 words
around 1630 GMT by Gretchen Cook WASHINGTON: Congressman Bill Richardson,
likely to become the next US envoy to the United Nations, has negotiated
deals with some of the most difficult members of the diplomatic
demi-monde. It's earned him the nickname "undersecretary for thugs."
US-Richardson-bio,lead 600 words around 1700 GMT by Sarah Jackson-Han KHAN
YUNIS, Gaza Strip: Thousands of supporters of the radical Islamic movement
HAMAS gather in memory of "the engineer" -- master bomb-maker Yehiya Ayyash
slain a year ago by suspected Israeli agents. Palestinian-HAMAS,2ndlead 600
words around 1730 GMT by Lee Keath UNITED NATIONS: The UN Security Council
holds another round of closed-door consultations in an effort to forge a
consensus on the choice for the next secretary-general. UN-election 600
words around 1730 GMT
