Latest developments in the US-led campaign against terrorism 
Here are the latest developments surrounding the US-led military
campaign in Afghanistan against the Taliban and the al-Qaeda network of
Osama bin Laden in response to the September 11 attacks on the United
States.
- US forces were striking "targets of opportunity" without pause in the
cave-riddled mountains of eastern Afghanistan amid growing indications
bin Laden was in an area where al-Qaeda fighters were holed up, US
officials said.
- bin Laden has eluded US-led forces seeking him in Afghanistan and
fled to Pakistan with the help of friendly tribesmen, the Christian
Science Monitor reported.
- Thirteen wounded Arab fighters admitted to a Kandahar hospital before
the surrender of the Taliban are holed up in a ward armed with grenades
and other explosives, medical staff told AFP.
- A small number of al-Qaeda fighters are believed to have escaped into
Pakistan from the eastern Afghan mountains, a US spokesman said in
Islamabad.
- Four crew members of a B-1 bomber were rescued at sea after their
supersonic aircraft crashed in the Indian Ocean, the first loss of a US
warplane in the military campaign in Afghanistan, US military officials
said.
- Efforts to achieve a quick implementation of the UN-brokered
power-sharing accord for Afghanistan are moving ahead as planned, UN
Secretary General Kofi Annan said in Stockholm.
- Outgoing Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani criticized the
UN-brokered Bonn accord on Afghanistan as the product of foreign
interference, but pledged to respect the new administration that takes
over December 22.
- The Northern Alliance favors an international security force of 1,000
soldiers in Kabul that will limit itself to guarding the premises of
the new interim government, a defense ministry spokesman told AFP.
- German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder called on the European Union to
reach agreement on its role in the peacekeeping effort in Afghanistan
at its upcoming summit in Laeken, Belgium.
- The foreign minister of Afghanistan's interim administration arrived
in India -- the third visitor from Kabul's new governent-in-waiting in
less than a week.
- President George W. Bush vowed that the United States and its allies
will offer lasting support to help rebuild Afghanistan, where his war
on terrorism has ousted the Taliban militia.
- Zacarias Moussaoui, the first suspect to be indicted in the United
States over the September 11 terrorist attacks, rejected French
consular help when he was arrested in August, the French foreign
ministry said.
- The United Arab Emirates Central Bank has frozen the assets of 14
people and institutions suspected of links with terrorist groups since
the September 11 attacks, a bank official said.
