Western governments warned of Albanian government corruption: report 
Western governments have failed to heed warnings from their
intelligence services that the Albanian government is deeply involved
in organised crime, a press report said here Friday.
The Independent quoted intelligence sources from different countries as
saying that classified dcouments have circulated in western capitals
for the last two years citing evidence of collusion and active
participation by members of the ruling Democratic Party (DP).
The reports allegedly accuse government ministers of drug trafficking,
illegal arms trading and large-scale sanctions-busting through oil
sales to Serbia and Montenegro during the war in Bosnia.
"I find it amazing that nobody has blown the lid on what has been going
on in Albania because it is truly mind-boggling," one intelligence
source told the paper.
"We have been passing this stuff on but nobody in government wants to
know," he added.
The Independent said drug barons from Kosovo, the southern Yugoslav
province with a 90 percent ethnic Albanian majority, operate in Albania
with impunity.
Much of the transportation of heroin and other drugs across Albania,
from Macedonia and Greece en route to Italy, is believed to be
organised by Shik, the state security police, in co-operation with the
police in states bordering Albania, the paper added.
It said intelligence services were convinced that the chain of command
went all the way to the top, and had named ministers in their reports.
Albania's Foreign Minister Tritan Shehu reportedly directly controlled
a company that enjoyed a monopoly on the import and export of oil
during the war in Bosnia.
Shqiponja, a company run openly by the DP, was used to run guns and
drugs, and these rackets are continuing in other forms, the
intelligence sources alleged.
The shaky pyramid investment schemes that sparked the current unrest in
the country were also closely linked to the government, the paper said.
The biggest of all the schemes, run by Vefa Holdings, is allegedly
identified closely with the government and has funded the DP's election
campaigns.
It is also under investigation in Italy for ties to the Mafia,
according to The Independent.
