Crowds Emboldened By U.S. Troops Left Unprotected
Emboldened by the presence of the U.S. military, Haitians began to
speak out against their oppressive government Tuesday only to learn
they were unprotected from harm.
People gathering to watch American soldiers arrive at this capital's
harbor and airport were driven away by baton-wielding police and
Haitian soldiers. In some areas, U.S. servicemen watched from their
posts.
Many Haitians said they were disappointed that the U.S. military was
not coming to their aid.
``These people are talking about (exiled President Jean-Bertrand)
Aristide coming back. That's the only reason they are being beaten,''
said Frantz Merilus, who watched police chase and beat people at the
harborside. ``I think these Aristide supporters thought the Americans
would protect them.''
As pockets of onlookers grew into large crowds during the past two
days, watching sometimes transformed into demonstrating. For the first
time in three years, people openly showed their support for Aristide.
Their enthusiasm was greeted by repression.
``Our police and army still terrorize the people,'' said Claude Dutrie,
who said he was an unemployed artist. ``We thought we would be free to
express our joy now that (military leader Lt. Gen. Raoul) Cedras and
his criminals are leaving. But our protectors who came in ships and
helicopters are not protecting us.''
Cedras is expected to leave office by Oct. 15, sooner if the Haitian
parliament adopts a measure granting him amnesty, according to an
agreement forged by former President Jimmy Carter.
There were reports the people taunted and threw stones at police and
Haitian soldiers Tuesday morning in the streets. No stone-throwing was
evident in the afternoon, though soldiers continued the crackdown.
People ran from a busload of Haitian soldiers. One youth, clutching his
arm, cried bitterly as he ducked through a hole in a chain-link fence.
Police sporadically chased people. A burly police sergeant paused at
one point to buy a cup of flavored shaved ice from a street vendor.
``This is madness,'' said Dutrie. ``There is no reason for such
violence.''
Michael Stenis, who watched from a distance, suggested that the
presence of American troops was influencing the street scene.
``If the Americans were not here, a lot of these people would be
shot,'' he said.
In the late afternoon, a pair of blue sandals rested in the middle of
the street -- someone literally chased out of there shoes.
