Riot in E. Timor Kills two People 
Two persons were killed and four houses were set on fire during a riot
between the pro-integration and pro-independence groups in East Timor
on Thursday, reports said.
The incident, the second one after the August 30 autonomy ballot in
East Timor, took place in Maliana subdistrict, Bobonaro district,
Antara News Agency quoted police as saying Friday in Dili, capital of
East Timor.
The riot started on 5:30 p.m. local time and was contained at about
7:00 p.m., police said.
The police are still trying to identify the culprits of the riot.
Meanwhile, in Batuahi Hill, Camea village in east Dili, a customary
house was set ablaze by the pro-independence group on Thursday.
The incident triggered the wrath of pro-integrationists, who then
burned down ten houses owned by pro-independence supporters, police
said.
However, no report has been received on the number of persons injured
or killed in the incident.
On Wednesday, at least two persons were killed and three others injured
in a violence targeted at the U.N. Mission in East Timor (UNAMET).
Indonesian Defense Minister/Armed Forces Chief Gen. Wiranto hinted here
Friday that the result of the August 30 autonomy ballot in East Timor
could be made public on Saturday.
However, he did not say where the announcement will be made. Earlier,
U.N. officials said the announcement will be made in New York. Some
reports said the announcement will be made simultaneously in New York
and Dili.
Wiranto said the military is preparing two battalions of troops to
safeguard the announcement.
According to the UNAMET which organized the ballot, more than 98
percent of the total 450,000 registered voters cast their votes during
the polling day in or outside East Timor.
The direct ballot will decide whether East Timor will enjoy a
wide-ranging autonomy under Indonesia or get independence.
East Timor, a former Portuguese colony, integrated into Indonesia in
1976, but the move has never been recognized by the United Nations.
In January this year, the Indonesian government proposed to give a
wide-ranging autonomy to East Timor. In May, the U.N., Indonesia and
Portugal decided to hold a direct ballot for the future of the
territory.
