China to Import More Crude Oil 
China will increase crude oil imports this year, but the import of oil
products will still be banned, today's China Daily reported.
The move is based on an oil shortage in the domestic market and the
country's refining capacity surplus, said sources with the State
Administration of Petroleum and Chemical Industries (SAPCI).
Although China is now the world's fifth largest oil producer, it must
turn to oil imports to meet the mounting domestic demand.
To fuel the country's economic growth this year, which is anticipated
to strike 7 percent or higher, the domestic oil demand will rise at
least 4 percent, sources said.
The imported oil will move a bit higher than that of last year to more
than 40 million tons, said Chen Yongwu, an SAPCI official.
China imported 38 million tons of crude oil in 1999. And the imported
oil will come from the Middle East and Southeast Asia, he added.
"China is also attempting to pump more crude oil at home to alleviate
the oil supply shortage," the official said. But he still predicted an
enlarging gap between oil demand and domestic output.
China's oil demand is likely to approach 300 million tons in 10 years
with its rapid economic growth, insiders said, noting that China will
continue to be a net oil importer, a situation that has been lingering
for more than six years.
"However, we can fully guarantee that there will be enough oil products
on the domestic market this year, making import unnecessary," Chen
stressed.
China has used only 66 percent of its oil refining capacity, enough to
meet the domestic demand for oil products, which expects to be 101
million tons this year.
China's current refining capacity amounts to 260 million tons, ranking
the fourth in the world. And there are still large quantities of oil
products in short supply nationwide.
The government is encouraging domestic refineries to process imported
crude oil, the official said, adding that the ban on oil product
imports, which was implemented about one and a half years ago, is
expected to help the refineries earn more profits this year as oil
product prices remain stable.
