Western hostages in Kashmir sighted as kidnapping enters 11th month
Four Western hostages taken by Moslem guerrillas have been sighted in
south Kashmir as their abduction entered the 11th month, Indian army
and intelligence sources said Saturday.
The hostages are safe and unharmed and being moved from hideout to
hideout by their abductors within a radius of 25 kilometres (15 miles)
around the southern Kashmiri town of Anantnag, Brigadier P.P.S. Bhindra
said.
Anantnag, reputed to be a Moslem militant bastion, is located 80
kilometres (48 miles) south of Srinagar, the summer capital of Kashmir.
"Our aim is to know the movement of the hostages and their kidnappers
so that we keep our troops away from them to avoid direct confrontation
for the safety of the Western hostages," said Bhindra.
The officer, who heads army operations in Kashmir, ruled out military
action to rescue the hostages.
"Armed kidnappers, along with hostages, keep changing their hideouts,"
an intelligence source said. "They (hostages) were seen wearing
Kashmiri woollens, sporting a beard and looking more Kashmiri than
Caucasian."
Britons Paul Wells and Keith Mangan, American Donald Hutchings and
German Dirk Hasert were seized by the Al-Faran guerrilla group in early
July along with Norwegian Hans-Christian Ostro while trekking in the
Kashmir Himalayas.
Ostro was beheaded in August by the kidnappers, who demanded the
release of 15 jailed colleagues in return for their release. The
Al-Faran is reputed to be a front for the Afghan-dominated Harkat
ul-Ansar.
"The government has made it very clear and taken a firm decision not to
accept any conditions of Al-Faran," said Bhindra, adding the
governments of Britain, the United States and Germany backed the Indian
stand.
"Four months ago, Al-Faram militants directly tried to contact the
American and British embassies but they refused to talk to the
militants and told them to contact Indian government representatives,"
he said.
US, British and German embassy officials have been camping in Kashmir
since the kidnapping in July to help Indian authorities secure the
hostages' release.
There has been no official contact with the abductors since November 26
when negotiations broke down.
Moslem rebels fighting for an end to Indian rule in Kashmir, the
country's only Moslem-majority state, have kidnapped scores of Indians
and about 10 foreigners since the separatist drive began in 1989.
The kidnapping of Wells, Mangan, Hutchings and Hasert is the longest
abduction drama in the strife-torn state, where 12,000 people have died
in violence related to the Moslem separatist drive in the past seven
years.
