Ceasefire takes hold in Chechnya, but rebels remain sceptical
The commander of Russian forces in Chechnya said Monday that all
military operations had ceased in the breakaway Moslem republic and
vowed that his troops would stand behind President Boris Yeltsin's
peace plan.
General Vyacheslav Tikhomirov said he had issued a ceasefire order to
troops from midnight (2000 GMT Sunday), as promised by the president in
a televised address Sunday, the ITAR-TASS news agency said.
"The soldiers support President Yeltsin's peace plan and intend to
scrupulously follow all measures aiming to put an end to the armed
conflict and resolve the conflict by peaceful dialogue," the general
told the agency.
Yeltsin, locked in a tough political fight for re-election in June,
declared Sunday he was halting Russian military operations in Chechnya
and willing to talk peace -- through mediators -- with rebel leaders in
the mainly Moslem republic in the Caucasus.
But Chechen rebel leaders have dismissed Yeltsin's peace plan as
unacceptable, while civilians were sceptical that peace was imminent
after 15 months of war which has left some 30,000 people, mostly
civilians, dead.
In Urus-Martan, rebel commander Doku Makhayev said: "At any rate, he
(Yeltsin) can make a three-hour speech, but the only phrase which
counts is the tiny phrase 'within Russia'. If he is not ready to
discuss independence, there is absolutely nothing new."
Under Yeltsin's plan, Russian troops are to withdraw in phases from
quiet areas inside Chechnya.
On Monday, Yeltsin signed a decree on the implementation of the plan,
Interfax news agency said.
In Chechnya, bursts of artillery fire continued overnight for an hour
and a half after the midnight ceasefire deadline expired around
Goyskoye, a rebel stronghold some 30 kilometres (19 miles) south of
Grozny.
But by Monday morning, calm had taken hold in the region, according to
an AFP correspondent in nearby Urus-Martan.
Residents of Goyskoye -- which has been pounded by Russian artillery
and air attacks in the last five days -- who went to complain to
Russian commanders of the ceasefire violations were told that Moscow's
troops would not flinch from opening fire "at the slightest
provocation."
"General Kontratyev told us that it was out of the question that he
pull back a single man from around Goyskoye as long as the combattants
have not left the village," one resident said.
For their part, separatist fighters interviewed on the outskirts of
Goyskoye said they had no intention of leaving the village "as long as
there remains a single Russian in front of Goysokye."
Tikhomirov said plans to pull out Russian troops from quiet areas
inside Chechnya and redeployment plans were ready, and would be
enforced taking into account "the operational situation".
But, echoing Yeltsin, he said that Russian troops would respond "to
provocations of extremist forces".
Meanwhile, the command of federal troops announced heavy Russian losses
in the past 24 hours of fighting around the village of Vedeno in
southeast Chechnya, with 28 soldiers dead and 75 wounded, the Interfax
news agency said.
A spokesman for the troops said the casualties were incurred when
Chechen fighters launched an assault on a Russian column near Vedeno
Friday.
