Chirac in Africa: Push Democracy or Coddle Strongmen?
On a visit to France's former African colonies beginning Wednesday,
President Jacques Chirac aims to firm up ties with both strongmen and
democratic leaders to boost trade and national prestige.
Reformers are hoping the bad old days of coddled dictators don't
return, but French businessmen fear losing trade to American companies
and argue favoring economic development over more democracy.
Insiders say that's sparked a policy struggle in Chirac's two-month-old
government as the conservative president embarks Wednesday on a six-day
trip in which he'll meet 15 heads of state.
While French business with Africa has fallen to a few percentage points
of France's overall foreign trade, it has an estimated 30 billion franc
(dlrs 6 billion) trade surplus with Africa, according to the Council of
French Investors in Africa.
Chirac, who has waged an aggressive neo-Gaullist foreign policy by
insisting on nuclear testing and a tougher stance in Bosnia, also aims
to plant France's flag firmly in Africa.
``For France, one of the signs of power is to be present in Africa,''
said Philippe Moreau de Farges, a researcher for the French Institute
for International Relations.
Chirac starts with a two-day stop in Morocco, where France has
maintained close links with King Hassan II as a bastion against Muslim
fundamentalism.
France supports Hassan for ``promoting a moderate, tolerant Islam,''
Chirac spokeswoman Catherine Colonna told a briefing Tuesday.
Chirac, who was to remain in contact with Paris on Bosnia, planned to
discuss the crisis with Hassan, said Colonna. Hassan was to meet on
Bosnia with Muslim foreign ministers Friday, though Chirac leaves a day
earlier and had no plans to send an emissary, she said.
Chirac wouldn't press Hassan hard on the Western Sahara, the
mineral-rich territory Morocco controls and wants to annex.
``We support U.N. efforts to promote an equitable and durable
settlement,'' Colonna said, referring to a planned referendum in which
the Polisario independence movement is disputing voter registration
with Moroccan authorities.
Chirac did plan to meet with opposition figures in Morocco, though not
in sub-Saharan Africa, Colonna said.
The French president flies Friday to the Ivory Coast, France's chief
African trading partner, where he is to meet President Henri Konan
Bedier along with the leaders of Togo, Burkina Faso, Benin and Niger.
The next day he flies to oil-rich Gabon, hosted by strongman President
Omar Bongo. They are to be joined by the leaders of Chad, oil-rich
Cameroon, Congo and the Central African Republic.
On Sunday, Chirac goes to Senegal for meetings with President Abdou
Diouf and the leaders of Guinea, Mauritania and Mali.
Colonna noted 12 of the 14 leaders Chirac would meet were elected,
though the opposition has contested some votes. Chirac would nudge
leaders toward further reform, she said.
``Progress has been made in democratization, but it must be deepened,''
Colonna said.
Chirac's entourage includes Jacques Foccart. Known as ``Mr. Africa,''
the 82-year-old former adviser under Charles de Gaulle was the
architect of France's neo-colonial policies that maintained Bongo and
other friendly leaders in power after independence.
Observers and government sources say Chirac, who skipped naming Foccart
as his chief African adviser, is tapping him for his expertise and
contacts.
Chirac ``is taken between two tendencies _ Premier Alain Juppe and
Foccart, which are contradictory,'' said Francois Xavier, president of
the advocacy group Survival.
A source close to Chirac, speaking on condition of anonymity, noted the
two camps were fighting for Chirac's ear.
Xavier and the source said they believe Juppe, who backs reform to
fight corruption and wean African countries from a deficit-ridden
French government, seems to have the upper hand.
``It is not impossible that the Juppe line wins,'' Xavier said.
But French companies are hoping Chirac goes easy on democratic reform,
said Jean-Louis Castelnau, delegate general of the Council of French
Investors in Africa, representing 100 companies.
``If we want to talk about economic improvement, we need strong
governments,'' he said.
``There is a real worry'' about American companies if France eases its
support of African governments, he said. ``We see a push by the
Anglo-Saxons in oil, gas and mines in Francophone Africa.''
