Area Grandmother Tries Indian Food
Eileen Rutherford waits to see how her stomach handles the plain naan
before taking a second bite.
Characterizing the experience as "different," local grandmother Eileen
Rutherford, 78, ate Indian food for the first time Saturday.
Although Rutherford was initially reluctant to try the cuisine, she was
persuaded by her visiting grandchildren Melissa, Brandon, and Allison,
who told the septuagenarian she needed to "expand her horizons."
"I couldn't believe that she had lived through three wars and the Great
Depression and never even tasted Indian food once," said Rutherford's
eldest grandchild Melissa, 22. "I was like, 'Grandma, you've got to try
it. It's so good.'"
Brandon, 19, made further entreaties, convincing a skeptical Rutherford
that Indian food "has lots of sauces, sort of like spaghetti sauce" and
repeatedly assuring her that she would like the bread. After
Rutherford's offer to instead make cold-cut sandwiches for everyone was
rebuffed, she relented and accompanied her grandchildren to the nearby
Bombay Delights restaurant.
"She only lives two blocks from the place, but she never went in
there," Allison, 20, said. "That's just sad."
According to Melissa, upon entering Bombay Delights, Rutherford seemed
apprehensive about the restaurant's Hindu-themed décor, sitar music,
and Indian people. Rutherford did, however, offer a positive comment on
the table's elegantly arranged red linen napkins, saying, "These
napkins are very nice."
Rutherford's attempt to order food was mired by several setbacks,
including a struggle to locate her reading glasses and an assertion
that she did not know what anything on the menu meant. Despite
Allison's best efforts to explain that the entrée selections were
clearly divided into sections by types of meats, seafood, and
vegetables, Rutherford encouraged her grandchildren to "go ahead and
order" for her.
Witnesses reported that Rutherford seemed overwhelmed by the unusual
aromas upon receiving her first course. She appeared delighted,
however, after she cut into the deep-fried pastry shell of a samosa and
a recognizable pea rolled out. Rutherford went on to talk about peas
for 15 minutes, including an anecdote about how she enjoyed shelling
peas from their pods when she was a little girl.
"It's cool that we were able to get Grandma to experience a whole new
set of flavors and textures," said Brandon, adding that it was
gratifying to see his grandmother sample coconut chutney and dum aloo
vindaloo. "Now that she's tasted Indian food, I wouldn't be surprised
if she starts coming here all the time."
"And the look of awe on her face when they brought out the fluffy poori
bread was so cute," he added. "When we deflated it with a fork, she
just smiled."
Rutherford's grandchildren said the highlight of the evening was
watching in giddy anticipation as Rutherford took her first bite of the
main course, an authentic goat curry dish. According to Brandon,
Rutherford raised her eyebrows slightly, silently nodded several times,
then took a sip of water. For the remainder of the meal, Rutherford,
who had never consumed goat meat before, ate primarily rice and plain
naan.
In a statement given after the meal, Rutherford described the entrée as
"just a little too flavorful."
"They put an awful lot of spices in there," said Rutherford, adding
that she liked the sweetened "little ball things" they had for dessert.
"It was very unusual."
Following the completion of the meal, the Bombay Delights waiter asked
Rutherford how her food was, to which she responded that it was "nice
to spend time with [her] grandchildren."
After leaving the restaurant, Rutherford returned home, made herself
comfortable in her favorite chair, covered herself with a blanket, and
ate tuna straight from the can.
