Club Owners Decide Against Lockout Vote 
U.S. Major League Baseball moved closer to getting back to normal
Sunday when club owners decided not to take a lockout vote and instead
said they expect a back-to-work agreement with players to be completed
within 24 hours.
With no threat of being locked out of spring training sites, regular
players were expected to start reporting to camps on Monday.
``It's the right thing for the fans,'' Mike Illitch, Detroit Tigers
owner, said.
``I think it's pretty much routine stuff that should be taken care of
rather quickly. It's what should be done. We need to get back to
playing ball,'' said John Ellis, chief executive officer of the Seattle
Mariners.
The club owners' actions during the 4 1-2-hour meeting strongly suggest
they have all but accepted the players' offer to return to work,
subject to agreement on minor details such as rescheduling MLB's
calendar.
The season-opening game, which was to have been played Sunday, was
tentatively postponed until April 26. In addition to the opener between
the Florida Marlins and New York Mets, all of Sunday's seven exhibition
games were canceled.
Players ended their strike Friday after U.S. District Judge Sonia
Sotomayor slapped owners with an injunction.
Sotomayor ruled the owners bargained in bad faith and were wrong to
declare an impasse in negotiations, thus allowing them to impose their
own work rules.
Sotomayor's ruling imposed the old work rules that the players stuck
under back in August.
``We want to put this behind us and turn the page,'' Baltimore Orioles
owner Peter Angelos said before the meeting. ``Let's begin again --
both sides.''
Teams were told to release all their replacement players by 11:59 p.m.
Eastern U.S. time Saturday night (0459 GMT), although some
strikebreakers stayed on and signed minor-league contracts. Some were
bitter.
``The owners got a high fastball under the chin and their knees
buckled,'' said Billy Faultz, a replacement pitcher with the Cincinnati
Reds. ``That's about the way I feel about it.''
Under the tentative agreement, each team would play 144 games, 18 fewer
than the original schedule. That would result in the cancellation of
the season's first 252 games, raising the total number of games wiped
out by the strike to 921.
This marks the third time opening day was pushed back by a work
stoppage. A strike is 1972 delayed it from April 1 to April 15, and a
lockout in 1990 pushed it back from April 2 to April 9.
Regulars would have just three weeks of workouts under the schedule
being discussed, the same as in 1990. Some owners wanted the union to
agree not to wipe out the latter part of the season again.
``I think we need a no-strike pledge but I understand they don't want
to do it,'' Philadelphia Phillies owner Bill Giles said.
Boston Red Sox general manager Dan Duquette said teams were hoping to
start exhibition games on April 13.
The decision to release all the replacement players was made so owners
didn't commit Sunday to paying dlrs 25,000 bonuses to each of the 32
replacements on each of the 28 teams, a total of dlrs 22.4 million.
``It felt like it was our money already,'' said Tim Dell, a replacement
pitcher with the Milwaukee Brewers. ``The closer it got to opening day,
the more we thought it was our money and the more it felt like if we
didn't get it, they were taking it from us.''
The memorandum to teams from the Player Relations Committee was simple
and direct:
``Although opening day will be delayed and there will be no replacement
player reserve lists, you should terminate all your temporary
replacement contracts by 11:59 p.m. tonight.''
According to people familiar with the discussions, Monday would be the
voluntary reporting date. The mandatory date would be either Wednesday
or Friday, except for non-U.S. citizens awaiting their visas.
Owners still hoped to have the injunction dissolved and Sotomayor's
decision reversed. A hearing is scheduled Tuesday before the 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals on the owners' motion for a stay of the
injunction and an expedited appeal.
