Pentagon Gulf War probe blasted as superficial, lacking credibility 
A presidential panel blasted Tuesday the Pentagon's investigation into
possible Gulf War exposures to chemical and biological weapons as
superficial and lacking credibility.
The panel called for more research but said none of the commonly
suspected Gulf War risk factors appeared to be the cause of the
unexplained illnesses reported by thousands of veterans.
President Bill Clinton, receiving the panel's report, promised a
"comprehensive and credible investigation" and asked the Presidential
Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans Illnesses to oversee the
Pentagon's investigation.
The Pentagon has come under mounting fire since its abrupt disclosure
in June that US troops may have been exposed to a nerve agent released
when Iraqi chemical weapons were inadvertently destroyed in March 1991.
That disclosure, more than five years after the end of the war,
followed years of firm denials by Pentagon officials that troops were
exposed to chemical or biological weapons.
"The committee is pained by the atmosphere of government mistrust that
now surrounds every aspect of Gulf War veterans illnesses because of
these concerns. It is regrettable but also understandable," said
committee chairwoman Joyce Lashof.
"Our investigation of the DOD's (department of defense's) efforts
related to chemical and biological weapons led us to conclude that the
departments early efforts were superficial and lacked credibility," she
said in presenting the committee's report on its 16 month inquiry.
It said the Pentagon's intransigeant refusal to fund research into
low-level exposures to chemical weapons until late last year had "done
a disservice to the veterans and to the public."
Despite its criticism of the Pentagon's response to veterans' concerns,
the presidential committee reached a conclusion similar to that of the
Pentagon: combat stress was likely to have played an important role.
The committee looked at nine Gulf War risks suspected as possible
causes: chemical weapons, biological weapons, pesticides, vaccines, the
drug pyridostigmine, infectious diseases, depleted uranium, oil fires,
and petrolum products.
"Based on existing scientific data, none of the existing Gulf War risk
factors commonly suspected appears to be the cause. And while the
committee finds that stress is likely to be an important contributing
factor to Gulf War veterans illnesses, the story is by no means
complete," said Lashof.
The committee called for research into three areas: the effects of low
level exposure to chemical agents; the physical effects of stress on
the body; and into synergies between pyridostigmine bromide and other
Gulf War risk factors.
Pyridostigmine bromide pills were taken by soldiers to counter the
effect of the nerve gas soma, and some research suggests that
interaction between the drug and other chemicals may have caused the
symptoms experienced by vetrans.
Symptoms reported by veterans include fatigue, memory loss, joint pain,
headaches, intestinal problems, and rashes.
Although nearly 90,000 veterans are on government registries of victims
of Gulf War illnesses, many veterans are ineligible for disability and
other benefits because their ailments appeared more than two years
after the war.
Clinton said he would support legislation to expand the eligibility
time frame.
