Unheralded British-born Cypriot seeks fame and fortune in India
Stephen who? That's the response most Cypriots would give if asked
about Stephen Constantine, even though he spent several good seasons in
Cyprus plying his trade as a football coach.
"I spent seven years trying to make a name in Cyprus but everybody kept
telling me I was too young or I didn't have what it takes to manage a
big team, now I'm in charge of India," Stephen Constantine told AFP.
Although the 39-year-old's CV is not a who's who of international
football, he proudly points out that he is one of a select few of FIFA
instructors and became the youngest top flight manager in Cyprus when
guiding Apep Paphos to promotion at 34.
"I don't want to come across as a big shot or someone who's bitter but
I'm completely ignored here because people in Cyprus still don't think
I'm not good enough," said the frustrated coach starved of recognition
in his native country.
In fact, British-born Constantine is not exactly a household name in
Britain where he was on the books of Chelsea and Millwall as a
youngster but had a somewhat undistinguished playing career cut short
by injury.
Rejected for top managerial posts in Cyprus and Britain, Constantine
has upped sticks and sought to make his mark much further afield.
In a career that has taken him from the Himalayas to Bournemouth, this
footballing nomad has finally struck lucky signing a lucrative
three-year 250,000 dollar deal to become national coach of India.
And the Anglo-Cypriot will be worth his weight in gold if he can turn
India from a sleeping giant to a regional football powerhouse to be
reckoned with, if not make the grade as a World Cup qualifier.
Moulding India into a feared force in Asia may appear beyond the
man-management skills of one of football's lesser lights but
Constantine cut his international teeth in an unlikely hot bed of
soccer passion.
Theiplined playing unit which, against the odds, reached the 2001 South
Asian Federation Cup Final losing out 1-0 to Bangladesh.
Only two years in the job, Constantine had worked his magic, rewritting
Nepal soccer history by turning no hopers into sociation.
But his deeds were not forgotten and Constantine was recommended by the
Asian Football Confederation to the All-Indian Football Federation
searching for their very own Svengali.
"India are not a power in South Asia but they have some quality players
and with a billion people we should be able to find a few more," said
Constantine buzzing with confidence.
Revealing he had no idea about what to expect, he confessed: "I'm going
in blind but it's not a bad thing to have no preconceptions".
Easily slipping into managerspeak he added: "Let's string a few results
together and see what we can achieve."
And maybe the game will stand up and take notice if the unknown Cypriot
can transform cricket-loving India into a soccer-mad nation.
"I don't think football is too far behind cricket, big games there
attract huge crowds of 100,000, they are just lacking success and once
you achieve that it will grow in popularity."
Constantine's immediate target is to improve India's FIFA world ranking
of 123 and he intends to make his mark in the Asian games in September.
Already it appears that he is winning over the fans in the Indian sub
continent.
"I've received more than a 100 e-mails warmly greeting my appointment."
But India's ambitious new coach is envious of those savouring the
momen40iJ the footballfest taking place in Korea and Japan.
"It's obviously every manager's dream to take a team to the World Cup
finals," said Constantine noting Japan and Korea have come good with
foreign coaches.
What price the Cypriot leading out India at the 2006 finals in Germany?
