US Move to End Arms Ban Enforcement Overshadows EU Defense Meeting 
The European Union states will debate plans Monday for a joint defense
policy, but overshadowing the meeting is a new rift with Washington
over the Bosnian war.
The session of the foreign and defense ministers of the Western
European Union, the EU's fledgling defense arm, comes three days after
the United States said it will no longer help enforce an arms ban
against the Bosnian government.
Central to that enforcement is a WEU-NATO Adriatic Sea task force of 16
European and three American ships, backed by U.S.-generated electronic
intelligence about ship movements.
Washington hopes its policy shift on enforcement, directed by Congress,
will push Bosnian Serbs into accepting an international peace plan for
Bosnia.
Britain, France and other European allies fear an influx of arms will
increase fighting and endanger the lives of their peacekeepers.
Yet removing the U.S. element from the arms ban enforcement won't have
a dramatic effect. Only four of more than 3,000 ships inspected or
diverted since the Adriatic patrols began in November 1992 have been
found carrying weapons for Bosnia.
If nothing else, Friday's U.S. decision widens the gap between
Washington and its allies over how to end the Bosnian war.
That gap has led to an unwillingness by the United Nations to make use
of NATO's offer of more intense air power over Bosnia.
WEU Secretary General Wim van Eekelen called the U.S. decision to
abandon the arms ban enforcement as ``divisive ... in trans-atlantic
relations in general.''
The United States argues the 1992 embargo prohibiting sales to all
sides in the Bosnian civil war has placed the Muslims at a disadvantage
against the better-armed Bosnian Serbs.
At their meeting in this North Sea resort, the WEU foreign and defense
ministers are expected to name Jose Cutileiro as Van Eekelen's
successor. The Dutchman is stepping down as WEU chief after more than
five years.
A career Portuguese diplomat, Cutileiro, 59, is best known for his
attempt to devise a peace plan for Bosnia in 1992. He comes to the WEU
at a crucial period for the organization.
In 1996, the EU nations will debate how to transform the long-dormant
WEU into their defense organization in parallel to NATO which links the
United States to the security of Western Europe.
Monday's WEU meeting is to help prepare for that debate.
The WEU was formed in 1954, but has always been overshadowed by the
more formidable NATO, the 16-nation military alliance that links the
security of Western Europe with the United States and Canada.
The WEU members are Belgium, Britain, France, Germany, Italy,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and -- soon -- Greece. EU
members Denmark and Ireland are observers.
Also coming Monday will be the foreign and defense ministers of
Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria,
Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
These nine East European nations are in line to join the EU and have in
the meantime been given ``associate partner'' status at the WEU.
