Mandela says government too slow in providing AIDS treatment
Former South African president Nelson Mandela on Thursday criticised the
government for dragging its heels in providing urgently needed treatment to
curb mother-to-child transmission of the HIV virus.
"The debate about some fundamental issues around HIV continues to rage
in a manner that detracts from what should be our concern in combatting
this major threat to our future," Mandela said as he presented an award
to doctors who have pioneered the use of anti-retroviral drugs for
HIV-positive pregnant women.
He said the doctors' work "emphasises the centrality of fighting
mother-to-child transmission in HIV prevention strategies... (which) we
accept to be beyond argument and doubt."
His remarks, seen as a jab at President Thabo Mbeki who has questioned
the link between HIV and AIDS and warned of the toxicity of
anti-retroviral drugs, came as the government continued to defy
mounting pressure to make the anti-retroviral Nevirapine available at
hospitals and ante-natal clinics throughout South Africa.
Mandela added: "But I am confident that insofar as this debate affects
our country, it is likely very soon we will solve the problem and many
people, especially in government, are thinking very seriously about the
observations that have been made with regard to the policy of the
government."
The former South African president was speaking after presenting the
2002 Nelson Mandela Award for Health and Human Rights to doctors James
McIntyre and Glenda Gray, co-founders of the peri-natal HIV research
unit at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto.
The US-based Kaiser Family Foundation has funded this annual award for
the past 10 years.
In his speech, Mandela also took a swipe at Mbeki's consultations with
AIDS dissidents who deny the link between the disease and HIV.
He said he had been successfully treated for prostate cancer diagnosed
last year because "when the dissidents had gone" he followed the advice
of trusted doctors.
Mandela has regularly spoken out on HIV/AIDS, not hesitating to
contradict his successor.
But the former president said his attempts to raise awareness of
HIV/AIDS had shocked people as this was not part of African tradition.
"I could see I was offending people," Mandela said, adding he had
called on late Diana, Princess of Wales, to visit South Africa to do
this.
Co-speaker Richard Holbrooke, the former US ambassador to the United
Nations, underscored Mandela's points on HIV/AIDS treatment at the
ceremony.
Holbrooke, who now heads the Global Business Council of AIDS, said:
"You cannot do prevention without treatment. It is a ridiculous debate.
You need both."
He warned that South Africa was the country most threatened by AIDS in
the world.
"It is a great test for the leadership of this country that it steps up
to the plate and deals with it," Holbrooke said, using a baseball term.
He criticised South African business for its negligible response to the
epidemic.
"On a whole the response of business has been pathetic," Holbrooke
said.
"Every business should take care of its workers, their families and use
the workplace to disseminate information and hopefully treatment."
Holbrooke singled out the country's mining companies -- who estimate
that 25 percent of their workforce is HIV-positive -- and said he is
meeting them Friday and Monday.
He also said: "The September 11 attacks changed American priorities and
I am extremely concerned that the war on terrorism may let the
monumental issue of AIDS and Africa slip down the agenda."
