A Peruvian helicopter was reportedly shot down Sunday, killing seven, and
at least one Ecuadorean soldier died in what officials called a ``massive
offensive'' by Peru in a disputed border area. It was the fourth day of a
conflict that has flared out of a longtime dispute. Peru and Ecuador fought
a war in 1941 over their 1,600-kilometer (1,000-mile border), and animosity
is still strong. Peruvian officials did not comment on the new fighting or
casualties. They have remained silent since clashes in the remote border
area flared Thursday. GROZNY, Russia -- Russian troops and Chechen rebels
brought the now-familiar sounds of battle to Grozny's battered streets
again Sunday as a European mission arrived to investigate allegations of
excessive brutality. Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev renewed threats to
burn Russian towns, but the Russian government dismissed him as a ``Grozny
godfather'' and said he had lost his grip on reality. Black smoke rose over
the Chechen capital as artillery shells and mines slammed into
neighborhoods.  Explosions were audible dozens of kilometers (miles)
away. SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina -- The Bosnian government's outgunned
army lost ground to anti-government forces Sunday in a fierce assault
around an embattled northwestern town, U.N. officials said. In some of the
worst fighting since a month-old truce between the Muslim-led government
and Bosnian Serbs silenced most guns, U.N. spokesman Maj. Koos Sol reported
701 artillery and mortar blasts around the town of Velika Kladusa. Sol said
Croatian Serbs and rebel Muslims pushed the government's Fifth Corps up to
five kilometers (three miles) farther southeast from Velika
Kladusa. JERUSALEM -- Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told his Cabinet on
Sunday that Islamic terrorism has put peace with the Palestinians at a
crossroads. Israel's fears of terrorism were underlined by a controversial
decision to station dogs at West Bank crossings. The Cabinet extended the
closure of the West Bank and Gaza Strip for at least another week, saying
it would be removed only if the Palestinian Authority took steps against
Islamic militants. The Cabinet approved the closure last week in response
to attacks that have killed 54 people since Oct. 1. PARIS -- Rivers in
western Europe rose to near or above record levels Sunday, driving hundreds
more people from their homes and shutting down factories. At least six
people have been reported missing and two deal in a third consecutive
winter of flooding in France. At least four Germans and two Belgians have
died. Heavy flooding also has hit the Netherlands. A new storm, another of
a chain that has rolled in from the Atlantic in recent days, brought light
showers Sunday and many rivers were reported leveling off. But rougher
weather was predicted for Wednesday.
