US, Japan Continue Semiconducter, Insurance Talks 
U.S. and Japanese trade officials continued their efforts today in a
bid to resolve disputes over the sale of American computer chips and
insurance in the Japanese market.
White House spokesman David Johnson said negotiators were still at work
after the five-year U.S-Japanese pact on semiconducter expired on July
31, and with no plans for a news conference or announcement.
Jay Ziegler, chief spokesman for the U.S. Trade Representative's
Office, said earlier that talks went all night in Vancouver, Canada's
province of British Columbia.
He said the overnight talks were conducted at the deputy minister level
by representatives of the two governments, while industry negotiators
underwent their separate talks.
The negotiators of the world's two economic giants were working against
a July 31 deadline set at a meeting in June between Japanese Prime
Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto and President Bill Clinton.
However, as the midnight deadline approached, the two sides agreed to
keep talking indefinitely.
Representative from the U.S. and Japanese computer chip industries met
throughout the day Wednesday. Acting Trade Representative Charlene
Barshefsky also met with her Japanese counterpart, Shunpei Tsukahara.
The computer chip dispute involves a 1991 agreement, that set a 20
percent target share for foreign products sale in the Japanese
semiconductor market.
The Japanese have refused to renew the agreement because they argued
that a current foreign market penetration of more than 30 percent, far
surpassing the expected target and the agreement is no longer needed.
They preferred a multilateral forum which includes the 15-nation
European Union to the bilateral pact.
The U.S. side took the position that without a transition agreement,
the gains foreign chip producers have made in the Japanese market could
be lost.
On insurance matters, U.S. officials said talks have been
disappointing. A major barrier remains a U.S. dissatisfacation that
Japan is not living up to an October 1994 agreement to open its primary
life insurance sector, which includes services such as auto, fire and
life insurance, to foreign companies.
