Memories are made of this
Seattle based neurologist Mark Fisher has caused a media frenzy with
the forthcoming release of his highly controversial lost memories
program.The program claims to not only retrieve lost memories but to
create new memories which can be used as a powerful shortcut to
learning.The program which is still in its early stages will be rolled
out fully over the next 3 to 5 years.The program if succesful...
Have You Had An Accident?
"Have you had an accident?" When we hear these words emanating from our
televisions, we know what's about to follow. "If you've had an accident
or fall either at home of at work you could be entitled to
compensation. Just call Injury Lawyers Direct and we'll see if you're
entitled to a no win no fee claim." These adverts are everywhere. These
days it seems as if there are only two types of adverti...
Funny story: Siebel Ready For The Big Time
Siebel Ready For The Big Time
In an exclusive interview granted to this reporter, Tom Siebel, shy and
reclusive pint-sized chairman of Siebel Systems Inc, outlines his
company's history and hopes for the future. "We're ready for the big
time now" says Tom... The Customer Relationship Management software
world was set alight recently by the news that Siebel 7.8 would soon be
on general availability. This latest version o...
Childhood heroes
Sebastian Coe was one of my childhood heroes. The middle distance
runner, who, along with the two Steve's Ovett and Cram, formed a mighty
triumvirate that dominated middle distance running throughout the
1980s, and lo, into the 90s. Sebastian Coe, it is said, trained so hard
that his heart grew to twice the size of most mortals. This massive
heart was only one of the weapons in his arsenal...
Geriatric Foreplay
Let me begin by saying I have a wonderful, thoughtful, kind and
considerate, husband whom I adore. I am a woman pushing sixty with a
few health problems, and my dear husband asks me how I feel every
single day. A while ago I noticed there were certain days when he asked
how I was feeling four or five times in the space of an hour. Initially
this perplexed me, but I eventually figured it o...
Conjecture on Future of Humanity
The children are not are future, rather it is the cavemen to whom we
must look for much needed guidance. For a while, it was pirates who
were the subjects of the public's ever obtrusive eye. Ninjas then
grappling-hooked their way to the top of the latter. I still feel they
were a bit overrated.
Carrot Cake
You've had it happen once, haven't you? The day seems to be going
perfect, when, for some unknown reason, a moment occurs and you wish
that something, anything would happen to pull you from that moment?
That time arose to me not no more than one half hour previous to this
moment. It was unbearable. I was at my local twenty-four hour diner,
where the demented drunks wallow in pig fat, the el...
Banished
Banished The warm rays of the sun pleasantly woke the two. Eve had
rested well, her mind in a state of exhilaration with her discovery of
the "headache" power over Adam she could exercise at will. Adam, on the
other hand, did not sleep well due to this same power. Eve looked
forward to the adventures the day would bring while Adam looked forward
to the adventures the night might bring. Eve...
Nothing Beats a Timex
East Otis, Massachusetts, in the foothills of the Berkshire Mountains,
is the kind of place that can be seen only from the air. Some
wags--especially those who enjoy a little night life, ethnic food, and
cable television--have observed that from the air is the only way to
see East Otis. There is a reservoir, which everyone calls a lake, in
East Otis; and my wife's parents used to have a cottage--...
