Maldini to fill Baresi's boots 
Paolo Maldini, seen as the natural successor to Franco Baresi for both
club and country, is set to switch to the centre of Italy's defence for
Tuesday's World Cup second round clash with Nigeria.
Italy's coach Arrigo Sacchi, unhappy with the co-ordination of his back
four since knee surgery sidelined Baresi, has spent the week
experimenting with Maldini in the centre rather than in his normal
left-back role.
Although Maldini only turned 26 last week, he has been a regular in the
Italian side for seven years and has also taken over the captaincy from
Baresi.
"I don't think the coach has completely made up his mind but I'm
expecting to play in the middle," Maldini said at the Italians' New
Jersey training base on Sunday.
The switch will mean Parma's Luigi Apolloni, who came on when Baresi
was injured against Norway and kept his place for the final group game
with Mexico, is likely to return to the bench with Antonio Benarrivo
replacing Maldini on the left.
Italy will face a double strike spearhead for the first time in the
tournament against Nigeria and Sacchi is trying to counter their
dangerous front duo of Rashidi Yekini and Emanuel Ammunike.
Sacchi is also expected to recall Roberto Donadoni in midfield in place
of Nicola Berti and give veteran forward Daniele Massaro his first
start up front.
Massaro, who scored twice for Milan in the European Cup final, came on
for the second half of the 1-1 draw with Mexico and made an immediate
impact by firing Italy ahead.
If he replaces Pierluigi Casiraghi, Massaro will be the third striking
partner Roberto Baggio has had in four matches in USA '94.
Casiraghi led the attack in the last two games after Giuseppe Signori,
who played alongside Baggio in the opening loss to Ireland, was
switched to a more familiar wide role.
Sacchi is also concerned about the state of Dino Baggio, the Italians'
matchwinner against Norway and a key organiser in midfield.
"Dino has not played a full game for Juventus all spring and he is
feeling the lack of conditioning. We will not risk him if he is not 100
per cent on Monday."
If Dino Baggio fails to make it, Antonio Conte is likely to come in.
