More Than 70 Vehicles Collide On Interstate 5
More than 70 cars and big-rig trucks collided in heavy fog on
Interstate 5 -- leaving two people dead, at least 27 injured and
thousands of holiday motorists stranded on the cold and rainy section
of highway known as the Grapevine.
A dozen tractor-trailers -- including three that caught fire -- were
among the wreckage that forced the closure of the southbound I-5 in the
Frazier Park, Calif., area. Only two of the southbound lanes were
opened by 9 p.m. and traffic was moving slowly through the crash area,
the California Highway Patrol reported.
Motorists waited in below freezing temperatures during the day, and
continued their vigil as snow began to fall late Wednesday evening near
the truck stop town of Gorman, 65 miles north of downtown Los Angeles.
For hours after the pileup, northbound traffic crawled through Gorman,
past the injured in their cars, firefighters trying to douse stubborn
flames and helicopters landing to shuttle victims to five Southern
California hospitals.
``It was really bad. Vehicles were strewn everywhere. It was chaotic,''
said Los Angeles County paramedic Bobby Fullove, who approached the
crash site from the air.
``It looked like the biggest Christmas tree in the world had fallen
over. There were red lights in every direction,'' he said.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL ADD FOLLOWS.)
One trucker died when his rig hit a tanker truck driven by Mavis Hurly
of Tulare, Calif. The wife of the fatally injured trucker and two
daughters were pulled from the mangled cab by other motorists,
firefighters said.
Another woman died en route to a hospital.
``All I saw were trucks crossing in front of me. I had nowhere to go.
It happened so fast,'' said Hurly, who escaped with minor injuries.
``Two guys had to help me out, using pipes to break the steering wheel.
I don't know how I got out of that one,'' Hurly said. ``It was pretty
scary. I heard trucks exploding behind me.''
The woman who died had been driving a sedan that California Highway
Patrol Officer Mark Ehly said appeared to have been battered several
times by cars and by trucks whose drivers were blinded by the heavy
fog. The unidentified woman was believed to be about 25.
``Her car was by itself in the center divider. I had to give her
mouth-to-mouth (resuscitation),'' said Ehly of the California Highway
Patrol.
``She suffered major blunt trauma,'' said Vivian Rebel, trauma nurse
coordinator at Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital in Valencia. ``She
had no heartbeat. She had no respiration.''
At least five rescue helicopters made their way through dense clouds
hugging the mountains to transport the injured to four hospitals from
Lancaster to Northridge, said Los Angeles County Fire Department
spokesman Mark Savage.
``It was really treacherous trying to get there,'' said Fullove, the
Los Angeles County paramedic. ``We had to fly sideways a lot for
visibility to make sure were did not fly into power lines.''
CHP officers said the accident occurred about 12:30 p.m. They said
motorists were driving too fast, and when dense clouds settled into the
Tejon Pass visibility was reduced to less than 10 feet.
Investigators said there were three separate pileups, with 10 to 12
cars colliding in the northbound lanes at the Gorman exit and more than
10 trucks crashing in the southbound lanes at Frazier Park.
But it was on the southbound side just before the Gorman exit where
close to 30 vehicles slammed into one another.
Rescuers called it the the worst series of accidents in memory in the
4,000-foot mountain pass over the Los Angeles-Kern County line.
Officer Dave Pokorny, standing in a cold, thick fog hours after the
wreck, traffic control and the rescue effort a logistical nightmare.
``This has been total chaos between the traffic and the fog and people
not understanding they have to slow down,'' Pokorny said, after turning
away angry motorists from a frontage road along the northbound side of
the freeway that was being used for emergency vehicles.
It took rescue workers more than two hours to pull all the injured
people from their vehicles and get them into ambulances or helicopters.
The injured were taken to Northridge Hospital Medical Center, Holy
Cross Medical Center, Henry Mayo and Antelope Valley Hospital.
Most of the injuries were minor, although one 84-year-old woman was
held at Henry Mayo after complaining of chest pains, Rebel said.
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL 2ND TAKE FOLLOWS.)
