US, Cuba reach immigration accord to end exodus of Cubans 
The United States and Cuba announced an agreement Friday to halt the
exodus of Cuban refugees, possibly ending a major foreign policy
headache for President Bill Clinton.
The accord reached after a week of negotiations calls for expanded
legal immigration of Cubans into the United States, with Havana
agreeing to take action to stop emigrants from leaving illegally on
makeshift boats and rafts.
"The United States and the Republic of Cuba recognize the common
interest in preventing unsafe departure from Cuba which risks the loss
of human life," said a joint statment issued in New York, where
negotiations were held.
The accord allows legal immigration of at least 20,000 Cubans into the
United States each year, along with an estimated 500 relatives of
Cubans already living in the United States, officials said.
Additionally, some 6,000 Cubans currently on a waiting list for US
visas will be allowed to immigrate.
"This agreement, when carried out, will help insure that the massive
flow of dangerous and illegal migration will be replaced by a safer,
legal and more orderly process," Clinton said in a statement issued in
New Orleans, Lousiana, where he was travelling.
"It's a fair, a good agreement," Clinton said, boarding Air Force One
in in New Orleans. "It's good for the United States."
Michael Skol, the chief US negotiator, said the estimated 25,000 Cubans
detained at the US naval base at Guantanamo Bay or taken to refugee
centers in Panama would have to return to Cuba to apply for a visa
under the agreement.
Havana will arrange for the repatriation of Cubans who recently left
and wish to return to Cuba, according to the joint statement.
White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said it was not immediately clear
what would happen to those Cubans being detained who did not want to
return to the communist-ruled island with serious economic woes.
In Havana, state television announcers read the text of the accord
without offering any commentary. The state news agency Prensa Latina
also released the text without further comment.
Analysts said the accord gives Clinton a much-needed political victory
because it gives no concession to Havana on ending the 32-year-old US
economic embargo.
And that was especially important for Clinton because he agreed to
talks only after Cuban President Fidel Castro announced August 6 that
Havana would stop turning back Cubans who wanted to leave by sea,
unleashing a flood of Cuban boat people seeking US shores in the
Florida Straits.
Clinton said the US would not let Castro dictate US immigration policy,
but then reversed the longstanding US policy of granting Cubans instant
asylum, which Castro demanded, saying it was fostering illegal
emigration.
In New York, Cuban officials sought to expand the talks to discussions
on ending the US embargo.
But Washington insisted the talks be limited to migration issues,
arguing that Havana must move toward democracy before the question of
normalizing relations can be addressed.
The agreement could give Clinton time to concentrate on another foreign
policy crisis in the region, Haiti, where a US invasion could come at
any time as part of a UN effort to restore democratic rule.
The US-Cuban statement said both sides agreed they would work toward
"directing Cuban migration into safe, legal and orderly channels
consistent with strict immplementation of the 1984 joint communique," a
reference to an earlier accord setting the quota of 20,000 Cubans per
year allowed to immigrate.
Despite the ceiling of 20,000, only about 3,000 Cubans have been able
to immigrate legal to the United States in recent years. Havana blamed
US bureaucracy for failing to live up the the agreement, but Washington
maintained that potential immigrants were afraid of reprisals in Cuba.
In an effort to halt the exodus, Clinton announced August 19 the United
States would no longer grant instant asylum to Cubans arriving
illegally in the United States and would take refugees picked up at sea
to third countries.
At least 29,000 Cuban refugees have been picked up at sea by US patrols
since early August.
The US Coast Guard rescued 610 Cubans Thursday and 86 by midday Friday,
down considerably from 1,029 on Wednesday. The exodus peaked August 23
when 3,253 were picked up.
The refugee crisis was sparked in early August when Castro reacted to
the worst demonstrations in Havana to date against his government by
saying that he would no longer stop people from leaving.
Thousands then took to the seas in a bid to cross the Florida Straits
and reach Florida, prompting Clinton to take steps to dissuade their
departures.
Refugees who were intercepted at sea by the US coast guard were
diverted to makeshift camps at the Guantanamo US naval base in
southeastern Cuba, while Washington decided what to do with them.
