Lovers of Kerouac find heaven in southern Chinese village
It may not be Kathmandu or Marrakesh during the great hippy days of the
late Sixties, but it is still a cool place to go for backpackers who
want to soak up scenery and mysticism.
Ten years ago, Yangshuo was a poor, sleepy village in southern China's
Guangxi province, nestling in sublime limestone crags carved by the
river Li.
The dramatic view, often tinged with mist or lowering clouds, has
inspired Chinese landscape painters for centuries.
But it is in these last few years that Yangshuo has seen its biggest
transformation, becoming a source of dreams to backpackers from around
the world seeking refreshment -- and to its own inhabitants, seeking
riches.
"Yangshuo is great. You can live well on less than 15 dollars per day.
The place is beautiful and calm and the people are so nice. It's so
different from other places in China," said John Douglas, a 28-year-old
Australian, tucking into a bowl of muesli at the Paris Cafe.
Douglas and other young visitors like to kick back at some of 20
restaurants in the village serving French and other foreign foods --
raging from apple strudel to mushroom bisque -- to keep the tourists'
taste-buds tingling.
The first, Suzanna, was opened back in 1983 by a Franco-Chinese couple.
Since then, it has been been joined by such exuberantly-named
establishments as Planet Yangshuo (its logo strangely similar to that
of Planet Hollywood) and Mickey Mao's, a name that at the launch of the
Cultural Revolution 30 years ago would be an invitation to a
self-criticism session for its owners, or worse.
Sandwiched between the cafes are shops hawking cheap merchandise, such
as batik clothes and T-shirts, and kitschy souvenirs.
In the evening American videos blare from the screens as visitors --
travellers exhausted from a bike ride in the countryside or from
spending the day flopped on a deckchair -- slake their thirst with a
beer for just three yuan (36 cents). The bars stay open until 1:00 a.m.
For the locals, life has changed remarkably since the Lonely Planet and
other backpacker bibles first spoke of beautiful Yangshuo and its
fishermen who use tethered cormorants to make the catch.
Wealth, colour, white skins and foreign languages have flooded the
village, but the surge of prosperity is such that no-one here seems to
complain. Warmth and friendship are the hallmark of relations between
visitors and locals.
