As Day 1 of the National Hockey League settlement came and went,
major-league baseball players passed the 154th day of their strike
listening to an update from union chief Don Fehr in Los Angeles and
pledging unwavering resolve as clubs prepare to open spring training in
five weeks with replacements.
``(The owners) think we're weak, that we won't stand together,'' said
Mets slugger Bobby Bonilla. ``But we've come this far, this thing isn't
about money anymore. This is about keeping what those guys before us
struck for.
``I see it getting worse before it gets better. People ask me if it's
almost over, I say we're in the second part of a doubleheader. And
we're in the first inning.''
An estimated 175 major- and minor-league players attended the union
briefing at a Los Angeles airport hotel, including the Dodgers' Mike
Piazza, Tom Candiotti, Tim Wallach and Eric Karros, and such
out-of-town stars as Tony Gwynn, Cecil Fielder, David Justice, Roger
Clemens, Dave Stewart, Mark McGwire, Randy Myers and Eric Davis. Three
more stops remain on the union tour this week, including visits to
Latin players in Caracas, Venezuela, and Santo Domingo, Dominican
Republic.
``Coming out of this meeting today, there wasn't a guy in there who
doesn't believe in what we're doing,'' Angels pitcher Mark Langston
said. ``I don't expect anybody to cross (the union's strike line).
Until the owners decide they want to come to the table and negotiate,
we're going to stay where we are now.''
Added Piazza, ``We're going to ride the storm out as long as it takes.
There's always hope (for a normal season), but it doesn't look good
right now.''
Owners unilaterally imposed their salary-cap plan on Dec. 23, a system
that eliminated salary arbitration, put new restrictions on free agency
and established payroll boundaries and limited revenue sharing among
the 28 clubs. Since the new system was imposed, not one player has
signed a new major-league contract and the union has declared all
unsigned players should be eligible for immediate free agency.
The union -- with the help of a decertification threat -- also has
solidified a powerful ally in the form of player agents. The cream of
the region's agent crop attended a separate briefing, with no
opposition to the union's demand that agents not assist in the signing
of replacement players.
``The union representatives discussed our obligation to resist
representing potential replacement players,'' said attorney Jeff
Moorad, who represents the Dodgers' Karros, Raul Mondesi and Billy
Ashley. ``It is our hope and belief there will be very little activity
in the replacement-player area.''
Agents also indicated continued cooperation with the signing freeze
suggested by the union after the cap's implementation.
``There doesn't seem to be a compelling reason for the signing ban to
be lifted, for the unforeseen future,'' Moorad said.
Union attorney Eugene Orza said, ``It continues to be very satisfying
to see the level of support for our position by a group (of agents)
that seems rivaled only by the players in its unity. To some extent,
agents can perceive even more clearly than the players how cockamamie
the implemented terms of management are.
``Agents are much more dispassionate in their assessment than players,
but they know this is a system designed to do nothing short of breaking
the union.''
Eric Goldschmidt, the agent who was indicted last year along with
client Darryl Strawberry for alleged tax evasion on income derived from
autograph appearances, also was in attendance. As a final piece of
business at the agents' meeting, the union admonished player
representatives not to try stealing clients from Goldschmidt's fold
during his legal travails.
