Pro-Yeltsin Party Formed in Moscow 
The Social Democratic Party (SDP), which is viewed as a major political
force to support President Boris Yeltsin in the general elections
slated for next June, was formally set up here today.
About 300 delegates, together with leaders of other political parties
and public organizations as well as representatives of the government
and the presidential administration, attended today's founding
ceremony.
The party was set up by Alexander Yakovlev, chief of the influential
Ostankino television company here. He was an politburo member in the
former Soviet Communist Party headed by Mikhail Gorbachev.
Opening the ceremony, Yakovlev stated that the goal of the party is to
"ensure optimal conditions for the self-realization of every
individual" and "creativity and permanent evolution of a post-feudal
society into a civil one."
The main political task for the party during the current period is to
prepare for the elections in federal and local parliaments, he said.
Analysts have interpreted the founding of the party as an attempt to
set up a pro-Yeltsin organization to compete with the "Russia's
Democratic Choice", which was headed by Yegor Gaidar, a critic of
President Yeltsin for sending troops to the breakaway republic of
Chechnya.
These surmises, however, were dismissed as "groundless" by Yakovlev,
who said his party would make "independent decisions".
But Yeltsin hoped in a congratulatory message that the new party would
"become a real force and take a worthy place in the political spectrum
of the Russian Federation."
"Your party may become a party for those who believe in the final
success of democratic changes and who understand that political apathy
is fraught for society with the most unpredictable consequences."
Speaker of the State Duma (lower house of the Russian Parliament) Ivan
Rybkin also sent a congratulatory message to the founding assembly,
saying the new party "has all necessary things to win people's
confidence."
The assembly is expected to adopt the party program and rules later
today.
