Peres Confirms Beit Jalla Cease-fire With Palestinians 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres confirmed Wednesday that a
cease-fire agreement regarding Beit Jalla had been reached between
Israel and the Palestinian National Authority (PNA).
Peres said that he is now waiting to see the implementation of the
cease-fire.
Earlier Wednesday, Israeli Defense Minister Binjamin Ben-Eliezer asked
Peres to step up diplomatic efforts to solve the Beit Jalla crisis.
The Israel Defense Forces into Palestinian town of Beit Jalla early
Tuesday morning in so-called response to heavy firing on Gilo from Beit
Jalla.
Earlier Wednesday, Palestinian gunmen and the IDF exchanged gunfire in
the Beit Jalla area and two mortar shells were also fired at the
Jerusalem neighborhood of Gilo Wednesday afternoon. One shell landed on
the roof of an apartment building, causing light damage, and a second
exploded in a valley nearby. There were no injuries.
Palestinians reported six people were injured, two of them seriously,
in a firefight with IDF troops in the area of the Aida refugee camp
next to Beit Jalla.
Diplomatic efforts continued through Wednesday in an effort to bring
about a withdrawal of IDF troops from Beit Jalla and to end Palestinian
fire on Gilo, which was built on land captured by Israel in the 1967
Mideast war and considered an illegal settlement by the Palestinians.
U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Kurtzer held telephone conversations
with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and with Peres. The Americans
are also in contact with PNA Chairman Yasser Arafat, who said that he
was looking for means to end the shooting.
Speaking to reporters here Wednesday after a meeting with the Italian
Foreign Minister Renato Ruggiero, Peres said that Israel would leave
Beit Jalla when the Palestinians stopped firing on Gilo and stopped all
other shooting.
Top Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said Wednesday that Arafat
demands that Israel retreat from Beit Jalla and requested that
international monitors be placed in the area.
Sharon and Ben-Eliezer agreed Tuesday night that the IDF would remain
in the West Bank village of Beit Jalla until Palestinians in the
village stopped shooting at the neighborhood of Gilo.
During the last 20 hours, Peres held two telephone conversations with
Arafat in an attempt to end the conflict in Beit Jalla. Peres also held
both direct and indirect contacts with other Palestinian leaders.
The foreign minister also held phone conversations with Egyptian and
Jordanian leaders in an attempt to get a guarantee from Arafat to
maintain quiet in the Gilo-Beit Jalla area.
