IAEA board begins meeting 
The board of governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
began meeting Monday amid frustration over delays in a plan to increase
the agency's powers of inspection of nuclear facilities.
The board, comprising diplomats from 35 of the IAEA's 124 member
states, is expected to discuss -- but not enshrine -- the plan first
mooted in 1993 to step up the fight against clandestine nuclear weapons
development programs.
The three-day meeting is expected to yield just one concrete result,
the adoption Tuesday or Wednesday of stricter rules for the transport
of radioactive materials, according to IAEA spokesman David Kyd.
Member countries use the rules, which are regularly revised, as
guidelines for national legislation affecting road, sea, rail and air
transport.
According to the agenda, AIEA chief Hans Blix is to review recent
inspections in North Korea on Monday.
The plan aimed at putting the brakes on the nuclear ambitions of
countries such as Iraq, Iran, Libya and North Korea has met with
opposition from member states such as Germany, Japan, Argentina, Spain
and Belgium fearing leaks of industrial secrets.
Opponents also argue that inspections should be allowed in the declared
nuclear powers -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States,
which are currently exempt -- in order to trace movements of
nuclear-related materials and know-how.
Stepped-up inspection powers were initially expected to be adopted by
last year.
However, an expert here said the plan will not be debated until the
next board of governors meeting in December, when it will probably be
postponed until March. He added: "Since we have to have the green light
from the general conference, that gets us to 1997. Then the member
states have to ratify it, which could well take two years. So at best
it wouldn't take effect until 1999."
The new rules would allow inspectors conduct inspections at shorter
notice -- 24 or 48 hours instead of at least one week under current
rules -- and to monitor a country's entire nuclear production capacity,
as well as the currently allowed on-site inspections of nuclear
material.
Inspectors would be allowed to visit operating reactors, nuclear waste
dumps, research centers even where there is no nuclear material and
disused nuclear installations and plants that could be converted to
produce enriched plutonium.
The IAEA's general conference of all 124 member states will be held
next week at the level of top officials.
