Press inflamed by hope of England win over Germany in Euro 96 
The longed-for victory for England in the Euro 96 semi-final against
Germany inflamed the British press Wednesday on a scale not seen since
Princess Diana's television revelations of adultery last year.
The game to be played later Wednesday figured prominently on the front
pages of every paper -- with the exception of the austere Financial
Times -- but coverage was notably less nationalistic and xenophobic
than earlier in the week.
Pictures of lions featured prominently on the front pages of The
mass-circulation Sun and the Daily Mirror, which on Monday had carried
pictures of two England stars in World War II helmets under the heading
"ACHTUNG! SURRENDER!"
The conservative broadsheets The Times and The Daily Telegraph worried
about the "Wembley whistle" bringing "the country to a standstill".
More than 20 million British viewers are likely to tune in to the game,
and "much of the country will grind to a halt" for the "sequel to the
Wembley World Cup final of 1966 between the two teams" which England
lost, the Telegraph noted.
The left-leaning Guardian and The Independent tried to outdo each other
in finding a fresh angle to run on the match. The Guardian revealed
that 14,000 tickets to the game went to corporate hospitality, and
provided its readers with some hints on "what to do if you hate
football."
The Independent published on its front page a poem entitled "1966/1996"
which derided tabloid xenophobia and called for Germany and England
fans to come together in their love of football.
Only the Daily Star kept up the xenophobic anti-German line which had
drawn severe criticism, including from England coach Terry Venables who
described it as "despicable".
The page one headline -- next to a picture of a semi-naked woman --
exhorted the England squad to "Give 'em Hell."
Inside its usual topless model was replaced with a picture of a woman
dubbed Brunhilde Grossentittiboobs -- carrying a huge mug of beer and
an enormous sausage -- clearly meant to represent a typical German.
