Koizumi sacks foreign minister, deputy
Japan's Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi sacked controversial Foreign
Minister Makiko Tanaka and her deputy Yoshiji Nogami late Tuesday, in a
move which could weaken his power base.
"The prime minister has just told me that he would dismiss me," Tanaka
told reporters after meeting Koizumi and Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuo
Fukuda at the prime minister's office.
Major news media reported Koizumi's decision to sack Tanaka and Nogami
about an hour after the ruling coalition rammed through a bill to
provide for a pump-priming second extra budget, in a lower-house vote
boycotted by opposition parties over a feud at the foreign ministry.
Tanaka and Nogami were fired following the high-profile spat which
centred on the foreign ministry's decision to bar two Japanese
non-governmental organisations from last week's conference in Tokyo on
rebuilding Afghanistan.
They had been making contradictory remarks over whether Muneo Suzuki, a
senior lawmaker of Koiumi's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), was
involved in the decision to bar the two organisations.
Suzuki is also expected to step down as chairman of the lower house
steering committee, press reports said.
In a full session of the lower house, the three ruling parties voted in
the bill for a 2.5 trillion yen (19 billion dollar) supplementary
budget for the year to next March to pull Japan out of deep er house
budget committee, in the absence of opposition lawmakers.
The LDP-led ruling coalition has a comfortable majority in the 480-seat
lower house.
Opposition parties shunned the vote while demanding the government
clarify why the foreign ministry barred two Japanese aid bodies from a
major donor conference on Afghanistan last week.
The dispute broke out last Thursday when Tanaka told parliament the
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) were shut out of a two-day
Afghanistan donor conference in Tokyo at the behest of Suzuki, an
influential LDP member.
Tanaka said she had confirmed this with vice foreign minister Yoshiji
Nogami by telephone.
Suzuki, who has been engaged in a long-running feud with Tanaka over
policy concerning Russian-held islands claimed by Japan, immediately
told reporters the foreign minister was lying.
The vice minister, the top bureaucrat at the ministry, then held a news
conference in which he flatly denied Tanaka's remark.
Kensuke Onishi, who represents the barred NGOs, Peace Winds Japan and
Japan Platform, has said the groups were excluded because of Suzuki's
interference.
The decision to exclude them was later revoked at Tanaka's insistence
on the closing day of the conference on January 22.
Koizumi, who belongs to a minor LDP faction, handpicked Tanaka, the
daughter of the charismatic former prime minister Kakuei Tanaka, as
foreign minister in recognition of her help in securing in his election
to the party leadership last April.
Her outspoken style has wooed the nation, boosting already high popular
support for Koizumi.
